










Optimus Prime (G1)/toys - Transformers Wiki
























Personal tools


Log in / create account







Views


Page
Discussion
View source
History





Optimus Prime (G1)/toys

From Transformers Wiki

Jump to: navigation, search 

Main
Marvel comic
G1 cartoon
IDW (2005)
Toys
Toys (Generations)
Merchandise
Gallery


 Awwwwww yeah......
Since 1984, Generation 1 Optimus Prime has received the largest number of toys for any single Transformers character, a testament to the character's enduring popularity and status as a hero to many fans.
Due to the popularity of the character and the evergrowing Generation 1 continuity family, this article had become far too large, causing internet browsers to struggle loading all of its contents—and in the most extreme cases—crashing entirely. For the sake of a nice clean split, we have opted to move all of Optimus Prime's Generations toys into a separate article which can be found here.

Contents

1 The Transformers

1.1 Transform Jr
1.2 Return of Convoy


2 Generation 2
3 Beast Wars
4 Machine Wars
5 Choro-Q Robo
6 Commemorative Series
7 The Transformers Collection
8 Smallest Transforming Transformers
9 Mini Toy Shop Collection
10 Masterpiece
11 Robotmasters
12 Universe (2003)
13 Collector's Edition
14 Hybrid Style
15 Alternators/Binaltech
16 Kiss Players
17 Titanium Series
18 Classics
19 Sports Label
20 Encore
21 Music Label
22 Transformers (2007)
23 Diablock
24 Henkei! Henkei!
25 Universe (2008)

25.1 Deluxe Class
25.2 Titanium Series


26 Alternity
27 Transformers (2010)

27.1 Legends Class
27.2 Deluxe Class
27.3 Masterpiece


28 United
29 Chronicle

29.1 EZ Collection


30 Kre-O

30.1 Battle Changers
30.2 Mini-Con Combiners


31 EZ Collection Gum
32 Generations
33 Bot Shots
34 BeCool
35 GT
36 FJ Cruiser × Transformers
37 Construct-Bots
38 Hero Mashers
39 EZ Collection (2013)
40 Bearbrick
41 Transformers (campaign item)
42 Legend Commander Collection
43 Optimus Prime Pen
44 Transformers (2014)
45 Nanoblock Motion Choro-Q
46 Q-Transformers
47 Optimus Prime featuring Original PlayStation
48 Timelines
49 Unite Warriors
50 Xiaomi / Transformers
51 au x Transformers
52 Authentics
53 Street Fighter II × Transformers
54 Golden Lagoon
55 G-Shock × Transformers
56 Vintage G1
57 35th Anniversary
58 Crossover Collection
59 Transformers Fan Book
60 Robosen Collector's Edition
61 Classic Heroes Team
62 LEGO
63 Anti-Gravity Pedestal Tenseg Base
64 Canon/Transformers
65 Notes

65.1 Before he became Optimus Prime
65.2 The many releases of Optimus Prime
65.3 Powermaster Optimus Prime design history
65.4 Miscellaneous Primes


66 References


 The Transformers


 From the Diaclone Battle Convoy came Optimus Prime and all his subsequent incarnations. Most people would be happy with just one Optimus Prime, but noooooo...
Optimus Prime (1984, 1985, 1986)
Takara ID number: 01
Accessories: Laser Blaster, 2 fists (left & right), Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump 
 Known designers: Shōji Kawamori (TakaraTomy)


 The original Optimus Prime toy started life as the Diaclone toy, "Battle Convoy", created by a team of Takara designers who came on board when the original designer fell behind. This team included Hiroyuki Obara (listed as the sole creator on the toy's patent) and famed mecha designer Shōji Kawamori. The toy transforms into two major components; the first component being a red and blue White Freightliner WFT-8664T cabover semi-trailer truck partially composed of die-cast metal, and the second component being a large silver trailer of currently-undetermined model.

The cab transforms into the robot mode of Optimus Prime himself, with the addition of a pair of removable blue fists that plug into his headlights. The fists themselves do not store anywhere in vehicle mode, but can fit easily in Prime's opening chest compartment (originally designed to accommodate two Diaclone driver figures). Prime is armed with a black laser rifle that, due to design, he cannot hold straight. Due to his transformation, his articulation is relatively high for the era, mainly in the arms, which feature rotation at the shoulders, biceps, and wrists, along with elbow bends and a backward shoulder joint. He's also one of the few toys of the 1984 era to have knees, though their use is restricted by his lack of forward hip movement. His smokestacks can rotate, but don't serve much purpose whatsoever.

Prime's trailer opens up into his Combat Deck, containing the scout drone, Roller. The interior of the Combat Deck features three pegs that can accommodate Prime's laser rifle, fuel pump and nozzle accessories, and seating for two Diaclone drivers. As its central feature, the Combat Deck features a missile-armed repair drone pod mounted upon a boom lift arm (featuring another cockpit for a Diaclone driver), which can also be extended through holes in the trailer's roof and front-end when it is closed. Situated in the base of the boom arm is a spring-loaded launcher that can launch Roller out of the Combat Deck and into action. Roller himself has seating for four Diaclone passengers, and features a port that can accommodate either Prime's rifle or the fuel pump. The interior space of the trailer allows storage room for one standard Autobot car, which can also be shot forward by the launcher.

Optimus Prime was subject to several molding and color variations in his early days. The earliest release of the figure featured larger fists, a gun with a thick, round barrel, a slightly-differently shaped gas pump, grey rockets, a grey Roller, a grey launcher in his Combat Deck, and metal plates in the floor of the Combat Deck (a holdover from the Diaclone version of the toy, to which the magnetic feet of the pilots could cling). In short order, his fists were slimmed down, the gun's barrel was pared down to a more slender form, the gas pump's shape was altered, the rockets and launcher were recast in black plastic, the metal plates were removed from the Combat Deck, and Roller's color was changed to a light blue. Along with Roller's color change, however, the Combat Deck's drone pod also became light blue, and a third running change soon followed that saw it restored to its original darker blue, and Roller changed along with it. These modified components would become the default accessories used by subsequent reissues of the Prime toy, though Roller stills fluctuates back and forth between grey and dark blue, depending on how show-accurate each reissue wants to be.

The Japanese release of the figure also underwent the changes in weapon shapes, but never featured a silver Roller; instead, their original release of Prime featured a Diaclone-style Roller without the two rear pegs, and the differently-shaped launcher that accommodated him, before a running change switched over to the Hasbro version of the mold. Finally, in some European countries, Prime sported red feet, as opposed to his traditional blue; this version of the figure is also known in some cases to feature a differently-painted forehead crest which leaves the three central indentations unpainted blue.

For the mainland Europe Milton Bradley release, there were two variants of Optimus Prime available: the first version, manufactured by Takara, sported blue feet like most other versions; the second version, manufactured by Joustra's parent company Ceji, sported red feet instead.[1] On top of that, the Italian release of "Commander" by GiG eventually featured a later variant that replaced the rubber tires and die-cast feet with plastic parts, similar to the US KB Toys variant of Ultra Magnus.

Having been removed from toy store shelves after 1985, Optimus Prime was made available as a mail-away toy in the "Digital Doom on the Highway to Destruction" offer in the US in 1986 to coincide with the Transformers movie premiering that year. He cost $21.50 and 5 Robot Points. He was also offered in 'The Autobots Have A Special Mission For...' mail-away pamphlet and came with a special "Movie Edition Certificate" and a round sticker that read " Movie . Edition . Transformer" with the Autobot symbol in the middle. (This item is considered rare.)

Over twenty-plus years, there have been a bajillion releases of this mold, some identical to the original toy, and some featuring significant variants with notably different paint jobs, color schemes, accessories and other pack-ins. We have striven to list all these variants on this page under their respective series; for a quick-reference list of all variants and releases check here. The cab robot has also been used sparingly to represent different characters; outfitted with different trailers, it has become Generation 1 Ultra Magnus and Pepsi Convoy.

More information on Generation 1 Optimus Prime at TFU.info





The Transformers mold: Optimus Prime




Version 1 (Truck only/with trailer):

Hasbro: The Transformers Optimus Prime
Optimus Prime (PepsiCo variant)
Original Optimus Prime (reissue)

Generation 2 Optimus Prime

Commemorative Series Optimus Prime

Universe (2008) Optimus Prime

Vintage G1 Optimus Prime

Milton Bradley: The Transformers Optimus Prime (red feet)

Takara/TakaraTomy: Fight! Super Robot Lifeform Transformers 01 Convoy
VSX Megatron (VS pack)
Convoy (Good Bye Convoy)
01 Convoy (reissue)
01 Convoy Black Version
01 Convoy Gold Version
01 Convoy (Tokubetsu Shiyō)
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver.
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. BLACK
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE VERSION RED CAMO
Transformers 35th Anniversary Commander Convoy (canceled)

The Transformers Collection 0 Convoy

Encore 01 Convoy

Chronicle G1 Optimus Prime

35th Anniversary Convoy

IGA: Transformers Optimus Prime (red eyes)


Version 2 (Magnus Armor):

Hasbro: The Transformers Ultra Magnus

Commemorative Series Ultra Magnus

Takara: Fight! Super Robot Lifeform Transformers C-69 Ultra Magnus
C-69 Ultra Magnus (reissue)
C-69 Shining Magnus
C-69 Ultra Magnus Yokokuhen Version


Version 3 (Pepsi trailer):

Hasbro: Classics Pepsi Optimus Prime

Takara: The Transformers Pepsi Convoy


Version 4 (Speaker trailer):

TakaraTomy: Music Label Convoy —playing iPod speaker—
Optimus Prime —speakers for iPod—
EXILE × TRANSFORMERS —speakers for iPod—




Hiroyuki Obara




 Pepsibots, roll out!
Optimus Prime (Limited edition promotional variant, 1985)
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (dark blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


A limited edition of the Optimus Prime toy sold as a mail-away exclusive by PepsiCo was made available in North America in 1985. This version of the figure came with a small fold-out leaflet glued to the top-right of the packaging, which contained two Pepsi logo stickers for the buyer to attach to Prime, mid-way through the traditional silver-and-blue stripe on his trailer. Canada also got a version of this promotional figure, but with much larger stickers that were the full length and height of the trailer. This promotion would go on to serve as the inspiration for the Japanese character of Pepsi Convoy, who would in turn be released by Hasbro as a new "Pepsi Optimus Prime" in 2007.



 Megatron, what are we doing in the same box?!
Convoy vs. Megatron (Versus set, 1985)
ID number: VSX
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


This Japanese-exclusive release of Optimus Prime came with the Japanese release of Megatron. There are no differences between this release of Convoy and the individually released toy.



 He's not leaving! He's right behind you!
Good Bye Convoy (Multipack, 1986)
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (dark blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


Commemorating the death of Optimus Prime in The Transformers: The Movie, this set contains a special version of the original Optimus Prime figure with show-inspired translucent blue windows. It was packaged with Ligier and Alert, in an apparent homage to the similar Diaclone "Powered Convoy DX" giftset that packaged the "Powered Convoy" version of the Optimus mold with figures using the molds of Ligier and Alert.



 Honkimus Prime.
Ultra Magnus (1986)
ID number: C-69
Accessories: large robot head, rifle, chest plate, 2 trailer connectors/waist plates, 2 small robot fists (left & right), 2 large robot fists (left & right), 2 missile launchers, 4 missiles


Ultra Magnus' inner white Optimus Prime redeco was repurposed as Optimus Prime in the Transformers vs. G.I. Joe issue "The War Never Ends".
Ultra Magnus is a redeco of the Diaclone "Powered Convoy" figure, itself a redeco and slight retool of "Battle Convoy", the toy that became the original Optimus Prime figure, sporting a new trailer. One of the last few Diaclone toys to be released in the Transformers toyline, Magnus was recolored from the original toy's dark blue, red and black color scheme into a more patriotic red, white and blue, though his chestplate, which was rendered white in his package art followed a more the blue color scheme of his shoulders. He transforms into a Freightliner COE, towing a car-carrier trailer capable of transporting up to four normal-sized Autobot cars. As with Optimus Prime, his cab transforms into a small robot, which can then combine with the trailer to form a "super robot", although all original Generation 1 fiction prior to the 21st century ignored this and simply rendered the super robot as Magnus's default robot form. To facilitate this combination, Magnus sports a slightly longer front axle than Prime, thereby creating tabs on either side of the cab that slide into grooves in the trailer to help lock the small robot into place. He is armed with a rifle sporting two handles that allow either of his robot modes to hold it, and two shoulder-mounted missile launchers, whose spring-loaded firing mechanism was removed for the Hasbro release of the figure.

The Diaclone Powered Convoy figure had several additional features and modes which were mostly excised or left unmentioned for the Transformers release of Ultra Magnus. Principally, Powered Convoy came packaged with "Powered Buggy", who was left out of Magnus's release (see notes below for further details). Omitted from Magnus's instructions is the ability of his chestplate and super robot head to combine to form a small vehicle; the Powered Convoy version of the figure included small rolling wheels on the underside of the chestplate which were removed for Ultra Magnus. Additionally, three additional modes were included in the Diaclone instructions that Hasbro left out: a "preparation base" mode and an "Autobot base" mode were excluded entirely, while the third, a "catapult launcher" mode originally intended and proportioned to accommodate the Diaclone Jet Robo figure that became Starscream, was shown only on the front of his packaging, interacting with Silverbolt. The Japanese release of Ultra Magnus—released as part of the Scramble City sub-line—did include instructions for the preparation base and catapult launcher modes, but replaced the original Autobot base mode with a new configuration.

The original Ultra Magnus figure has been reissued and redecoed several times down the years, and this article strives to list each edition of the figure under its own heading. The first alteration to Magnus, however, was a running change made while he was still on shelves: Originally, his tires were made of rubber and he sported paint on both his small and large robot heads, but this version was soon replaced with one featuring plastic tires and no paint on either head. In addition, the clear yellow plastic that formed his windows was removed from the cab, leaving just holes instead; and his thighs and fuel tanks were left white, as opposed to the vacuum metalized chrome ones of the original release.

The small robot component, as well as being part of Optimus Prime, was also released with a different trailer as Pepsi Convoy. 
More information on Ultra Magnus at TFU.info





The Transformers mold: Optimus Prime




Version 1 (Truck only/with trailer):

Hasbro: The Transformers Optimus Prime
Optimus Prime (PepsiCo variant)
Original Optimus Prime (reissue)

Generation 2 Optimus Prime

Commemorative Series Optimus Prime

Universe (2008) Optimus Prime

Vintage G1 Optimus Prime

Milton Bradley: The Transformers Optimus Prime (red feet)

Takara/TakaraTomy: Fight! Super Robot Lifeform Transformers 01 Convoy
VSX Megatron (VS pack)
Convoy (Good Bye Convoy)
01 Convoy (reissue)
01 Convoy Black Version
01 Convoy Gold Version
01 Convoy (Tokubetsu Shiyō)
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver.
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. BLACK
01 Convoy Reissue BAPE VERSION RED CAMO
Transformers 35th Anniversary Commander Convoy (canceled)

The Transformers Collection 0 Convoy

Encore 01 Convoy

Chronicle G1 Optimus Prime

35th Anniversary Convoy

IGA: Transformers Optimus Prime (red eyes)


Version 2 (Magnus Armor):

Hasbro: The Transformers Ultra Magnus

Commemorative Series Ultra Magnus

Takara: Fight! Super Robot Lifeform Transformers C-69 Ultra Magnus
C-69 Ultra Magnus (reissue)
C-69 Shining Magnus
C-69 Ultra Magnus Yokokuhen Version


Version 3 (Pepsi trailer):

Hasbro: Classics Pepsi Optimus Prime

Takara: The Transformers Pepsi Convoy


Version 4 (Speaker trailer):

TakaraTomy: Music Label Convoy —playing iPod speaker—
Optimus Prime —speakers for iPod—
EXILE × TRANSFORMERS —speakers for iPod—




Hiroyuki Obara




 My Japanese release has a lot more bling. And shorter stacks.
Optimus Prime (Powermaster, 1988)
Accessories: Hi-Q Powermaster unit, 2 laser rifles, 2 twin particle beam cannons, super robot head


Powermaster Optimus Prime was the first new toy of the Autobot leader since the original toy's release in 1984. He is an all-new design, featuring the Powermaster gimmick: His partner figure, Hi-Q, must be transformed into an engine and attached to Prime's vehicle mode in order to enable the transformation into robot mode.

Like the original figure, Powermaster Prime is composed of two major components: his truck cab, which transforms into Prime himself, and his trailer, which is essentially a heavily-armed version of the original. The trailer has a fold-down ramp to allow the storage of a smaller Transformer, or perhaps spare accessories. The trailer transforms into a battle station armed with two long black rifles and two grey double-barreled cannons (featuring seating for Powermaster engine figures), all of which Optimus Prime can also wield in his fists.

Aside from the Powermaster feature itself, the main gimmick of the toy is the ability of the truck cab to combine with the trailer to form the larger "Super Optimus Prime" figure. This is essentially accomplished by standing the trailer up, folding the cab in half and inserting it into the empty cavity in the trailer's torso, forming an imposing—if almost entirely unposeable—robot form armed with all four weapons. The head of this super robot form is a separate piece which can be stored in the rear of Prime's trailer when not in use. While Hi-Q was always shown plugged into Prime's chest in artwork of this mode (as seen in the picture here), this was actually entirely unnecessary as transforming into Super Optimus Prime didn't require the standard Prime toy's legs to be unlocked.

The Japanese release of Powermaster Optimus Prime actually represented a new character named Ginrai, and featured several retools: the cab featured die-cast metal, shortened smokestacks, vacuum-metalized plastic and clear blue windows, while the trailer was given retractable super robot fists. This Japanese version was eventually issued by Hasbro in 2003 as part of the Commemorative Series collection (see below).

This toy was later redecoed into the Japanese-exclusive Nucleon Quest Super Convoy.

There were several different prototypes made for this toy. See a list here.

More information on Powermaster Optimus Prime on TFU.info





 Eastbound and Down.
Armored Convoy with Optimus Prime (Action Master, 1990)
Accessories: trailer, 2 laser guns, 4 blaster cannons, 2 Energon exhaust stacks, photon bazooka


The largest Action Master set, this incarnation of Optimus Prime is a non-transforming action figure which comes with the "Armored Convoy", a large, heavily armed tractor trailer. The cab of the truck transforms into a small jet that can seat one Action Master figure, while the trailer itself converts into a larger battle station with turrets that several Action Masters can man. The sculpt of the Prime figure itself is closely based on his character model, albeit with a coloration that seems to have been based at least partially on the small robot form of his Powermaster body. Unlike the one seen in the commercial, the final product loses paint operations of Prime's upper legs.

The Action Master Optimus Prime figure was later redecoed with a more show-accurate color scheme and included in the Japanese-exclusive "New Year" reissue of the original Optimus Prime toy in 2002. The Armored Convoy was later redecoed as the Microman: LED Powers toy Micro Trailer – sans Optimus Prime, natch – which also received two separate Lucky Draw toys as the Dark Trailer and Flame Trailer.

More information on Action Master Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Original Optimus Prime (Original Autobot Leader, 1990)
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (dark blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


This straight reissue of the original Optimus Prime figure was released in Hasbro's European markets in the early 1990s, at the same time as many other Generation 1 figures were being re-released as "Classics". Oddly, although he shares their golden packaging, Prime is not actually identified as a "Classics" figure anywhere on his box, but is generally considered to be part of the sub-line for simplicity's sake.



Convoy (reissue, 2000) 
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (grey), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


The first in what would be a deluge of reissues of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure in the 21st century, this Japanese release sported a golden sticker on his packaging announcing the celebration of the Transformers' 15th anniversary in the country. It featured slightly modified fists to help hold the gun better.

Simultaneously, this figure was available as a black convention-exclusive redeco, and a golden-chromed "Lucky Draw figure" (see below).



 Not the first black Convoy, but the first that wasn't a clone.
Convoy Black Version (2000)
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (black), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pum


Released concurrently with the 2000 reissue of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy, this black redeco of the original Prime was available exclusively at the Japanese convention JAFCON. Everything about it is black, including all of the Combat Deck and Roller.

More information on JAFCON Convoy at TFU.info





 Prime's a gold digger/way over Cybertron.
Convoy Gold Version (2000)
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (gold), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


Released concurrently with the 2000 reissue of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy, this "Lucky Draw" redeco of the original Prime replaced all of the figure's silver chromed parts and stickers with golden ones, and even included a blinged-out Roller. The figure is extremely rare; apparently only 25 are known to exist.



 Epic Black repaints are the right of all toy collecting beings.
Nucleon Quest Superconvoy [sic] (2001)
ID number: C-307X
Accessories: Hi-Q Powermaster unit, 2 laser rifles, 2 twin particle beam cannons, super robot head
 Known designers: Hirofumi Ichikawa (deco artist)


This redeco of the Ginrai tooling of the Powermaster Optimus Prime figure (released concurrently with the 2001 reissue of the Ginrai figure) was a Toys R Us Japan exclusive black repaint, made to represent the original Optimus Prime equipped for a special mission. All of his red and blue plastics were changed to black, his clear blue windows were now tinted red, making his overall colour scheme very reminiscent of the now-familiar 'Black Convoy' color schemes.

More information on Nucleon Quest Super Convoy at TFU.info





Convoy (Tokubetsu Shiyō) (2002)
ID number: 01 
Accessories: 2 laser blasters, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (dark blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump, Action Master Optimus Prime figure, Matrix of Leadership, chain, Autobot sticker sheet, mouse pad


Labeled "2002 New Year Special", this Japanese-exclusive "Special Specification" (特別仕様 Tokubetsu Shiyō) of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure featured tinted blue windows, like those sported by the "Goodbye Convoy" edition of the toy, as well as show-accurate blue eyes. Prime came with all his original accessories, including both versions of his rifle, as well as a new die-cast metal Matrix of Leadership accessory, which can be tabbed into his chest. Additionally, the set included a show-accurate redeco of the Action Master Optimus Prime figure, a sheet of Autobot insignia stickers of varying sizes, and a mouse pad decorated with the Autobot symbol.

The Matrix accessory was later recolored in gold chrome for inclusion with the 2005 Galvatron reissue toy, and in green chrome as the Creation Matrix for the e-HOBBY-exclusive Galvatron II toy. It returned to its original silver coloration when it was included, sans chain, in the 2010 Transformers: Reveal the Shield "Battle in Space" 2-pack.

More information on New Year Special Convoy at TFU.info





 TRUKK...AND MUNKY?
Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. (A Bathing Ape exclusive, 2011)
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump 


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in July 2011, concurrently with a range of exclusive Transformers t-shirts, "Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver." (コンボイ復刻版 BAPE® Ver.) is a redeco of the original Optimus Prime toy sporting a unique new green color scheme, along with a tan trailer decorated with a camouflage pattern. Both trailer and Prime himself feature the A Bathing Ape logo in place of an Autobot symbol, while the floor of the trailer's Combat Deck mode features new Bathing Ape-themed labels. The figure comes in a recolored version of the original Japanese Optimus Prime packaging.
Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. on BAPE.com





 Prime at his audition for The Artist.
Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. BLACK[2] (A Bathing Ape exclusive, 2012)
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump 


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in April 2012, "Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. BLACK" (コンボイ復刻版 BAPE® Ver. BLACK) is a redeco of the original Optimus Prime toy sporting a unique new grey color scheme, along with a grey trailer decorated with a camouflage pattern. Both trailer and Prime himself feature the A Bathing Ape logo in place of an Autobot symbol, while the floor of the trailer's Combat Deck mode features new Bathing Ape-themed labels. The figure comes in a recolored version of the original Japanese packaging.



 Three times faster than the original BAPE version.
Convoy Reissue BAPE VERSION RED CAMO[3] (A Bathing Ape exclusive, 2013)
ID number: 01
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump 


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in March 2013, "Convoy Reissue BAPE VERSION RED CAMO" (コンボイ復刻版 BAPE® VERSION RED CAMO) is a redeco of the original Optimus Prime toy sporting a unique new red color scheme, along with a red trailer decorated with a camouflage pattern. Both trailer and Prime himself feature the A Bathing Ape logo in place of an Autobot symbol, while the floor of the trailer's Combat Deck mode features new Bathing Ape-themed labels. The figure comes in a recolored version of the original Japanese packaging.

Convoy Reissue BAPE VERSION RED CAMO on BAPE.com





 For the people who wanted this for the S.T.A.R.S. kit, I have bad news for you.
Transformers 35th Anniversary Commander Convoy (canceled)
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right)


Released as part of the "Transformers 35th Anniversary Commander Convoy Box Crowdfunding Project" kickstarted by TakaraTomy and TV-Kun, this Convoy is a gold-chrome-and-redeco of the Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure, featuring a more balanced deco compared to the Gold Convoy Trophy (at least until the second prototype reveals that the entire body is chromed). Despite being etched on a trophy stand, Convoy is able to transform into truck mode, albeit facing upwards.

In addition, the set also comes with a replica of the S.T.A.R.S. supply kit, a S.T.A.R.S. badge, a Transformers Fan Club card, a poster, and a Transformers Mook.

Crowdfunding began on July 1st until August 31st, with a total of 2000 backers needed. Unfortunately, it only reached 840 backers with a total of 16,650,000 yen out of 33,600,000 yen needed.





Proceed on your way to oblivion.This item has been canceled, with no current plans for release.





 Transform Jr


 Prime's kid brother.
Convoy (1985)
ID number: 01
Accessories: 2 fists (left and right), head, laser blaster, cardboard trailer 


As one of the first Transform Jr toys, this version of Optimus Prime was released under the early name for the series, Transform Gōkin. As a smaller, simplified version of the original Generation 1 Prime figure intended as a low-cost alternative for younger children, Prime features a similar transformation, with a removable head in addition to fists, but lacks rubber tires and translucent windows. As with most other Transform Jr figures, he lacked any of his major accessories, coming only with his rifle and a cardboard replacement for his trailer that had to be assembled by the buyer.



 The true Heroes of Cybertron
3 Heroes Set (multipack, 1987)
Accessories: 2 fists (left and right), head, laser blaster, cardboard trailer


The Transform Jr version of Prime was re-released a few years later in a "Hero" set alongside the Jr versions of Chromedome, and Fortress Maximus. 

5 Years of Leaders Set (multipack, 1989)
Accessories: 2 fists (left and right), head, Laser Blaster, cardboard trailer


Prime was again re-released several years later in a lucky Draw "5 Years of Leaders" set alongside the Jr versions of Rodimus Convoy, Fortress Maximus, God Ginrai, and Star Saber.


 Return of Convoy


 
Star Convoy (Powered Master, 1991)
ID number: C-372
Accessories: laser rifle, Micro Trailer, Microcarrier, small cannon, cannon turret stand, radar, connector, 2 ramps
 Known designers: Takashi Kunihiro (TakaraTomy)


As the final new-design Optimus Prime toy from the original Generation 1 era, the Japanese-exclusive Star Convoy was a significant departure from previous versions. This incarnation of Prime transforms into an extended-hood cab truck of made-up model pulling an implausibly large trailer, incorporating the motorized "Microcarrier". Powered by four AA batteries, the Microcarrier drives Star Convoy either forward or backward, spinning a radar dish mounted on the rear of his trailer as he rolls along. Prime's teammate in the Battlestars, Grandus, can link up to the rear of Star Convoy's vehicle mode and be pulled along behind him; Sky Garry can then land atop Grandus, forming a giant vehicle. 

Unlike previous Optimus Prime toys, the cab section does not separate from the trailer for transformation, instead forming the arms of his imposing 12-inch tall robot mode. He lacks any sort of leg articulation in this mode, but the Microcarrier comes into play again, allowing Prime to roll either forward or backward into action.

Additionally, Star Convoy transforms into a large battle station that interacts with the Micromasters that made up the vast majority of the Transformer toyline at the time. His chest contains a peg that allows Micromaster figures to stand inside it in either robot or base modes, and he comes with a unique Micromaster version of Hot Rod not available on its own. He features storage space in his legs for two spring-loaded figure-launching Micro Trailers, and comes with one of his own, decorated in a unique black and orange color scheme. In this mode, two ramps are connected to the Microcarrier; when the carrier's treads are set rolling, they do not move the base, but instead act as conveyor belts that carry Micromaster figures down the ramps. The Microcarrier also spins a gun turret mounted between the conveyors, on which Micromaster figures can stand. Finally, a special connector packaged with Star Convoy allows the Microcarrier to be connected up to Grandus's base mode, powering his moving elevator.

More information on Star Convoy at TFU.info





 
Star Convoy (reissue, 2005)
ID number: C-372
Accessories: laser rifle, Micro Trailer, Microcarrier, small cannon, cannon turret stand, radar, connector, 2 ramps


Star Convoy was reissued by Takara in 2005, with some notable alterations to his deco: his white plastic was replaced with metallic silver, and the yellow star on his chest was chromed golden. Star Convoy himself retained some of his original decals but most notably his "simulated head lights" and "wind shield panels" were stamp graphed on him, similarly, Hot Rod's were replaced with the same stamp graphing applications. Additionally, where the original toy had been packaged in robot mode in a tall box decorated with the standard Japanese package art of the time, the reissue was packaged in vehicle mode, in a long, wide box more reminiscent of the original Generation 1 toys.

The stickers for this reissue have been found to deteriorate over time, with the silver portions showing a prominent fading effect. This was even present in a sealed copy.[4]

More information on reissue Star Convoy at TFU.info




 Generation 2
 I AM OPTIMUS PRIME.
Optimus Prime (1993, 1994)
Accessories: laser blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (light blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump, 2 missile launchers, 2 missiles, sound and lights module


The first Generation 2 Optimus Prime toy is a redeco of the original Generation 1 figure release with some notable new additions to catch him up to the radical 1990s. While his cab robot retained his original red and blue color scheme, his trailer was recast in black, with the original blue and silver striped sticker replaced with a red and silver one displaying Optimus's name. On the first release of the trailer, the internal components and Roller matched the blue of the cab robot. Later, the internal components and Roller were changed to a lighter blue. Another running change followed, making the dark blue of the cab robot match this lighter shade. A bright yellow "Autobot" tampograph was also added to the back of his right leg.

Generation 2 Optimus Prime comes with all his original accessories, as well as two major new play features. To increase his arsenal, Optimus is now armed with a pair of large, black handheld missile launchers that fire red missiles. These launchers were retooled from the G.I. Joe figure Barricade. Second, he comes with an electronic "sound and lights module" that can either plug into the front of the trailer (where it resembles a trailer refrigeration unit), or hook onto Optimus's back in robot mode via a new slot retooled into the cab robot. Unfortunately, the soundbox is heavy enough that doing so can often overpower Prime's hip joints, causing him to topple backward. The soundbox features a large, vacuum metalized Autobot symbol on its front, and three grey buttons which trigger two flashing red LEDs on either side of the module, and a trio of sound effects: a truck engine noise, a laser gun sound effect, and a very loud "I am Optimus Prime!". The module also features ports on either side into which the missile launchers can peg.

How the sound module handles batteries is an oddity among Transformers before or since. As G2 Optimus came out during a transitional period where button cell batteries were still fairly expensive, the module uses AA batteries by default, but was originally packed with a small bracket for included LR44 batteries that overrides the AA compartment completely to support the "Try Me!" feature in the box. The original intent is to discard the bracket once the LR44s run out and switch to several AA batteries, but if one were to keep it, the electronics can work equally well solely off far fewer button cell batteries.

More information on Generation 2 Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 BE A HEEEERO
Optimus Prime (Hero, 1994)
Takara ID number: TRF-1
Accessories: gun, 2 rockets


Hero Optimus Prime was the first new-mold Optimus Prime toy created for the Generation 2 line. He transforms into a Kenworth truck of unknown model which defies Optimus convention by being one continuous unit, rather than the traditional cab-and-trailer combo. Decals form the windows of a faux truck face to represent his chest, featuring both his name and what appears to be a life support readout coming alive towards the end. In addition to a small gun, he is armed with a large missile launcher, which can fire a rubber-tipped rocket by means of a bellows which you slam your fist down on to produce a puff of air. The launcher is accessible in both modes, ending up mounted on his right forearm in robot mode; the bellows is attached via a rubber hose and cannot be disconnected, but stores on the figures's back when not in use, as do the rockets. A similar air-launching system with identical missiles was used by the simultaneously-released Hero Megatron, and by Laser Optimus Prime the following year (see below).

This mold was also used to create Sureshot and the KB Toys-exclusive Destructicon Scourge. 

More information on Hero Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 What was that about shoulder-speakers, Jazz?
Laser Optimus Prime (1995)
Takara ID number: TRF-13
Accessories: "Laser cannon", "saber weapon", missile launcher, 10 missiles, 5 discs, 2 rockets


Laser Optimus Prime (released in Europe under the name "Laser Rod Optimus Prime") transforms into a mid-1990s Western Star 4964EX, pulling a grey and black fuel tank trailer. The sides of the trailer are decorated with a sticker depicting Prime using a flamethrower to burn down a banner with the words "Optimus Prime Octane" on it. The truck is armed with a disc launcher on the roof of its trailer, which launches five blue discs bearing the Generation 2 Autobot insignia as a knob is turned. Like the other "Laser" toys released this year, Prime features electronics powered by two button-cell batteries; in truck mode, pressing the button on the cab's roof causes his headlight to light up with yellow LEDs.

In the grand Optimus tradition, the cab of Laser Optimus Prime disconnects to become the highly poseable robot mode of Prime himself. Like Powermaster Prime and Hero Prime, the toy features the iconic windshield pecs and grill abs, despite not actually being formed from the actual truck components they emulate. In robot mode, pressing the button on Prime's cab (now on his back) activates a red LED in his right fist which illuminates his clear-plastic sword (which stores beneath his legs in truck mode).

Prime's trailer unfolds via a spring-loaded transformation mechanism in a battle station that is positively bristling with varied weaponry. In addition to the disc launcher, it is armed with a "ripple-fire" missile launcher that fires five missiles, an air-powered rocket launcher like the one previously seen on Hero Optimus Prime, and a small laser cannon that mounts on the base's main tower. Both the missile launcher and laser cannon can disconnect and be held by Prime; his LED-fist will illuminate the laser cannon like it does his sword. Additional missiles and a second rocket are stored in grooves inside the sides of the trailer.

This mold was redecoed by Takara in 2000 as Car Robots Black Convoy, sans electronics. The following year, it was released by Hasbro as Black Convoy's 2001 Robots in Disguise franchise counterpart, Scourge, with retooled discs that lacked the Autobot insignia and a blunted sword, again sans electronics. Following this, the next use of the mold was planned to be Universe Toxitron, which ended up being canceled. The modified Scourge tooling was also used when Laser Prime was reissued by Takara in 2006 with a modified deco (see below), and for the e-HOBBY exclusive Laser Ultra Magnus that accompanied the reissue's release, with electronics restored. In 2015, Platinum Edition Year of the Goat Optimus Prime, another repaint version, comes with partially transparent plastic torso.

In addition to being the most popular Generation 2 figure, Laser Optimus Prime was, prior to 2003, a regular contender for most popular Transformers toy ever, back in the days of the annual alt.toys.transformers fan awards; the toy won twice, and actually lost once to his redeco, Scourge.

More information on Laser Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Generation 2 mold: Laser Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime

Robots in Disguise (2001) Scourge

Universe (2003) Toxitron (canceled)

Platinum Edition Optimus Prime Year of the Goat Edition

TakaraTomy:

G-2 TRF-13 Battle Convoy
TRF-13 Battle Convoy (reissue)

Car Robots D-012 Black Convoy

Sonokong:

Car Bot D-012 Black Convoy

e-HOBBY:

G-2 TRF-13-S Laser Ultra Magnus




 Sweet ride, Prime
Optimus Prime (Go-Bot, 1995)
Accessories: gun


A redeco of the Generation 2 Go-Bot Firecracker, Optimus Prime transforms into a red Hot Wheels-sized Lamborghini Diablo. Like most Go-Bots, he features high speed axles and can roll very well across smooth surfaces, but lacks the weight to propel him quickly. He is armed with a small red laser rifle. The plastic colors are a "solid" version of Firecracker's color layout, substituting opaque red for transparent red plastic.

The Japanese release of this toy swapped out the orange plastic for neon yellow, and had a large tampograph on the car's hood that was shaped like a stylized letter 'T', with the Transformers logo in it. Going against the grain, this toy was released in Japan with the name "Optimus Prime" instead of "Convoy".

In Europe, this deco was sold as Firecracker himself rather than Optimus Prime (at least in the French/Dutch/German packaging variant). The sculpt was later redecoed again for the third wave of Go-Bots to become Sideswipe (who Prime really looks a lot like), and later still into the 2001 Robots in Disguise Spychanger R.E.V..

More information on Go-Bot Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Generation 2 mold: Firecracker



Hasbro:

Generation 2 Firecracker (clear version)
Firecracker (European opaque version)
Optimus Prime
Sideswipe

Robots in Disguise (2001) R.E.V.
R.E.V. (clear yellow)
R.E.V. (Tiny Tin)
R.E.V. (clear yellow & green)

Takara:

G-2 Optimus Prime

Car Robots C-006 Eagle Killer
Eagle Killer (JUSCO)
Super Eagle Killer
Super Eagle Killer (clear version)

Sonokong:

Car Bot C-006 Eagle Killer




 
Optimus Prime (Hero, 1995)
Accessories: Gun, 2 rockets


 This Optimus Prime was to be a redeco of Hero Optimus Prime in dark blue and red. Packaged samples of this toy were produced, but it was ultimately never released.

The packaged samples feature a "traditional" color scheme for the head, with a silver mouthplate; the prototype depicted in the official catalog image seen on the right sports an unusual red mouthplate, which inspired several later toys.

Since much of the advertising for the ultimately unreleased redeco used an older, outdated name for the "Heroes" assortment, "Combat Heroes", Optimus and an equally unreleased redeco of "Hero" Megatron are commonly referred to by fans as "Combat Heroes" compared to the original "Heroes" releases, although all evidence suggests that Hasbro had never actually intended such a distinction, instead treating them as mere color variants. Though the packaging is mostly unchanged (including a reuse of the existing packaging art depicting the original release's color scheme), one of the few minor alterations sees the addition of the name "Hero" (rather than "Combat Hero") to Optimus Prime's name above the (otherwise unchanged) UPC barcode.

A finished sample of the Hero Optimus Prime redeco was among the rare toys auctioned off for charity at BotCon 1996, along with several other unreleased Generation 2 items.

"Combat Hero" Optimus Prime in packaging at Super Toy Archive
"Combat Hero" Optimus Prime in packaging at Transformers @ The Moon
"Combat Hero" Optimus Prime in and out of packaging at Seibertron







Proceed on your way to oblivion.This item has been canceled, with no current plans for release.






General Optimus Prime (Auto Roller, 1995)
Accessories: Four missiles


 
 "General" Optimus Prime would have been a redeco of the Decepticon Auto Roller Dirtbag in green, ironically bearing a closer resemblance to Hound's color scheme than the also-unreleased "Sgt. Hound" Auto Roller. General Optimus Prime would have transformed into a dump truck, and would've had an autotransformation gimmick.

 This mold was also used to make Autostinger.





Proceed on your way to oblivion.This item has been canceled, with no current plans for release.






 
Battle Convoy (reissue, 2006)
ID number: TRF-13
Accessories: "Laser cannon", "saber weapon", missile launcher, 10 missiles, 5 discs, 2 rockets


This reissue of the original Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime figure was made using the modified version of the mold created for Robots in Disguise Scourge, lacking the sculpted Generation 2 Autobot insignias on the disks featured on the original. It sported a modified deco, with the flat grey plastic on both the trailer and Prime's chest now replaced with silver chrome; additionally, new Autobot symbol tampographs were added to the doors of Prime's cab mode and the front end of his trailer, and a pair of new chest-window stickers featuring an illustration of the Matrix of Leadership replaced the original decals.

This version of the mold was used to create the e-HOBBY exclusive Laser Ultra Magnus, and somewhat more perplexingly, was briefly repurposed by the second Beast Wars Reborn text story as a temporary body for Optimus Primal!



Generation 2 mold: Laser Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime

Robots in Disguise (2001) Scourge

Universe (2003) Toxitron (canceled)

Platinum Edition Optimus Prime Year of the Goat Edition

TakaraTomy:

G-2 TRF-13 Battle Convoy
TRF-13 Battle Convoy (reissue)

Car Robots D-012 Black Convoy

Sonokong:

Car Bot D-012 Black Convoy

e-HOBBY:

G-2 TRF-13-S Laser Ultra Magnus



 Beast Wars
Very early in the life of the Beast Wars toyline (before the debut of the Beast Wars cartoon), Hasbro treated the series as an extension of the Autobot/Decepticon war, and so Optimus Primal was presented as being the same character as Optimus Prime.
Optimus Primal vs Megatron! (Basic versus two-pack, 1996)
Takara ID number: C-6 I'm Batman, and I can breathe in space.
Accessories: 2 swords


The first Beast Wars Optimus Primal is a Basic size class blue bat which could autotransform into a robot by pulling the tail. Two swords were removable from under its wings for use as weaponry in robot mode. It was packaged along with an alligator version of Megatron and a Beast Wars mini-comic. 

This figure was released during the short-lived period when Hasbro was treating the Beast Wars as an extension of the Autobot/Decepticon war, and Optimus Primal was presented as being the same character as Optimus Prime. This was soon relegated to the realms of micro-continuity when the Beast Wars animated series began and clearly established that the two Optimuses were different characters, but the toy remains one that was officially branded as Prime, and is consequently listed here.

This mold was also used to make the less ambiguous Optimus Prime-recolored Convobat, the separate individual Convobat, Onyx Primal as well as inspire the comic character Nyx.

More information on Optimus Primal at TFU.info





 Well, that's just Prime.
Optimus Primal (Ultra, 1996/1997/1998)
Takara ID number: C-1
Accessories: 2 "spinal swords", 4 "mega-blast missiles", "mace whip"


 The second Optimus Primal toy was an ape in the Ultra size class. Though the transformation from primate to humanoid was a relatively simplistic one, the toy compensated with more than a fair share of weaponry and action features. A compartment on his right forearm opened to reveal a skull-shaped "mace whip" he could hold in his fist. His left forearm could open into a double-barreled "mega-blast missile" launcher. On his back were two more spring-loaded "mega-blast missile cannons"/launchers which auto-flipped over each shoulder. By pulling a lever in the center of his back, both arms would either spin at the bicep or bend in and out at the elbow, depending on the placement of notch-buttons located on either bicep. This gimmick was shown to be an effort to simulate a gorilla beating its chest while Optimus was in beast mode, but could also be used in robot mode, making him swing his weapons wildly before himself. And finally, like many first-year Beast Wars toys, a battle mask/"mutant head" could be deployed over his robot head.

Takara released the toy as part of their Beast Wars line in July of 1997, nearly identical to the Hasbro version. The missiles for the Takara version are thinner and simpler than the original Hasbro version, and would be used in all subsequent releases of the mold.

Just like Optimus Primal's basic bat toy, this figure was released during the short-lived period when the Beast Wars was still considered to be an extension of the Autobot/Decepticon war, and Optimus Primal was the same character as Optimus Prime. This was soon relegated to the realms of micro-continuity when the Beast Wars animated series began and clearly established that the two Optimuses were different characters, but the toy remains one that was officially branded as Prime, and is consequently listed here.

This mold was redecoed into Universe Optimus Primal and Beast Wars Telemocha Series DX Convoy, and retooled into Beast Wars Reborn/Beast Wars Tenth Anniversary versus pack Optimus Primal. Takara also created multiple special variants, including all-gold (from TV Magazine, only ten awarded), red and gray (TV Magazine again, but only one awarded), and blue-fur (a Comic Bom Bom design-contest prize, only five awarded).

More information on ape Optimus Primal at TFU.info





Beast Wars mold: Optimus Primal (Ultra Class)



Version 1:

Hasbro: Beast Wars Optimus Primal

Universe (2003) Optimus Primal

Vintage Beast Wars Optimus Primal

Takara: Beast Wars C-1 Convoy
C-1 Special Convoy Real Gray Type
C-1 Special Convoy Skeleton Type
C-1 Burning Convoy

TV Magazine Beast Wars C-1 Gold Convoy
C-1 Blue Convoy
C-1 Red Convoy

Version 2:

Hasbro: Beast Wars 10th Anniversary Optimus Primal

TakaraTomy: Beast Wars Reborn BWR-01 Convoy

Beast Wars Telemocha Series TM-SP DX Convoy

Legends LG02 Convoy (Optimus Primal)




 Freedom is the right of all superstitious, cowardly lots. Wait, no, that's not right...
Amazon Showdown Special Version (1997)
ID number: VS-S1
Accessories: 2 swords


 Available only in a special CD-ROM two-pack with a purple redeco of "Megaligator", this redeco of "Convobat" takes his colors from the first G-2 Convoy toy released in Japan and retains his previous gimmickry. His back features a silver Maximal faction symbol plus "C-ROM", as in "Cybertron", get it? Huh? And Megatron has the "D-ROM"? See what they did there?

The toy's bio clarifies that this Convobat is Optimus Prime, having had a trailer truck alternate mode and later scanning a bat to fight Megatron.

The included CD-ROM includes the bios from wave 1 of the Beast Wars toyline, the first Beast Wars commercial, and a coloring game.

 This mold was also used to make Onyx Primal.

More information on CD-ROM Convobat at TFU.info
Review including CD-ROM images at aburachoujin's blog




 Machine Wars
 Most Autobots aspire to be Optimus Prime, Optimus Prime aspires to be Thunder Clash.
Optimus Prime (Ultra, 1997)
Accessories: Laser rifle, 2 missiles


 Available only at KB Toys, Machine Wars Optimus Prime is a redeco and slight retool of the European Generation 1 exclusive Turbomaster leader Thunder Clash. It's easy to see why Thunder Clash was chosen to become the new Optimus Prime, given his adherence to Prime tradition: the truck cab disconnects to become the robot, while the trailer unfolds to become an assault tower with twin missile racks. On the original Thunder Clash version of the mold, the racks operated on a gravity-feed system where a new missile drops into the launcher from above each time one was fired, allowing for twelve to be fired in rapid succession using a pinball launcher style mechanism. 
For Machine Wars Prime, this feature had to be retooled for safety reasons, sealing the gravity feed slot and cutting the original launcher plungers down to just the handles, which do not move. The small missiles were replaced with much larger new molds to prevent choking hazards and triggers were added to the sides of the launchers, becoming regular spring loaded (and unusually powerful) single-firing weapons. There seems to have been some disconnect between the deco artist and whoever handled the redone Thunder Clash stickers, as some stickers replicate details already handled by paint on the figure. Like the other four large Machine Wars figures, no guide exists in the instructions to show how said stickers should be applied. Also not noted in the instructions is that the handgun is meant to serve as the drive shaft for the cab, storing between the legs on the backside.

 The package art for this toy is a retouched version of the art for Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime (see above), but now positioned so one robot arm is always "off the edge" of the box and unseen - conveniently hiding the sword this toy has never had, yet leaving the Laser Prime faceplate intact.

 This version of the mold was planned to be redecoed into Menasor for the Universe line, but the release was canceled.

More information on Machine Wars Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Choro-Q Robo
 
Convoy TV Version (2001)
ID Number: Q/01
Accessories: Laser rifle


Choro-Q Robo Convoy is a small, cutesified transforming figure of Optimus Prime that changes from trailer-pulling truck directly to robot mode. The toy features a working pull-back motor, and is decorated in a color scheme based on Prime's appearance in the original Generation 1 cartoon, with blue eyes and windows and a grey stripe on the trailer.

Move information on Convoy TV Version at TFU.info





Convoy Metallic Version (2001)
ID Number: Q/02
Accessories: Laser rifle


This version of Choro-Q Robo Convoy is a redeco of the first, featuring glittering metallic plastic, and a deco based upon the original toy, with yellow eyes, black windows, and a silver-and-blue stripe on the trailer.


 Commemorative Series
 The snip that launched a thousand snits.
Optimus Prime (2002/2012)
Accessories: Laser Blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (grey), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


The first reissue of the original Optimus Prime toy in North America since the Generation 1 toyline reached its end, this "Commemorative Series" edition of the figure was a Toys"R"Us exclusive. It was mostly identical to the original figure, save for some necessary modifications made for safety reasons: In the first instance of what would become a recognizable alteration to the mold, the toy's smokestacks were shortened, while the Combat Deck's firing missiles were elongated to prevent potential choking, as was the case with all other Commemorative Series figures' firing missiles. This release also had the trailer's launching feature removed.

In 2012, a reissue of the Commemorative Series toy was released. Though the "Commemorative Series" label was not printed anywhere on the packaging, the included instructions retained the name. The toy itself is a mix of different versions. The cab has the safety modifications of the original Commemorative Series release, including the shortened smokestacks and longer missiles (and thicker rifle), but also has the modified hitch of the 2011 Chronicle two-pack (see below). Meanwhile, the trailer features the lighter gray plastic colors used for the 2008 Universe release, and the Autobot insignias on the robot's shoulders are tampographed (like on Takara's Encore version and Hasbro's Universe 25th Anniversary release). This version also seems to suffer from mold deterioration.

More information on Commemorative Series Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 The real one has a longer missile
Powermaster Optimus Prime with Apex Armor (2003, 2012)
Accessories: Hi-Q Powermaster unit, 2 Laser Rifles, 2 Twin Particle Beam Cannons, Super Robot head, missile launcher, 2 missiles, Apex Bomber chest/trailer top, 2 legs (left & right), 2 arms (left and right), Armor chest/trailer front, 2 wings (left & right)
 Known designers: Kōjin Ōno (TakaraTomy), Ban Magami (concept artist)


Marketed as a reissue of Powermaster Optimus Prime, this Toys"R"Us-exclusive Commemorative Series figure is in truth based on the Ginrai tooling on the toy that had previously been exclusive to Japan. It features a die-cast metal cab with translucent blue windows, and shortened, chrome smokestacks, and comes packaged with the drone Apex Bomber (formerly Ginrai's partner Godbomber), who splits into several components and combines with Prime to form "Apex Armor". As with all other Commemorative Series figures, Prime's new spring-loaded missile launcher featured an elongated missile.

The figure was re-released in Hasbro's Asian markets in 2012, with no known changes to the figure itself but several modifications to the packaging that makes it easy to tell the two releases apart: The flap containing the package art is omitted entirely, the "Commemorative Series II" label is missing, the age recommendation and safety warning labels, the "Changes from double tractor trailer to battle station to super robot!" call-out and the name of the toy have all been shuffled around (with the words "battle" and "super" being omitted in the process), and most notably, the toy is no longer named "Powermaster Optimus Prime with Apex Armor", but simply "Optimus Prime", with Apex Bomber's existence no longer acknowledged anywhere on the packaging.

More information on Powermaster Prime with Apex Armor at TFU.info




 The Transformers Collection
 
Convoy (2002)
ID Number: 0
Accessories: Laser Blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (dark blue), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump, energon-axe


As yet another in an increasingly large number of reissues of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy, this entry in the Japanese-exclusive The Transformers Collection line of reissues added a few extra goodies to spice things up. Chiefly, the figure was armed with a new energon-axe, based on the weapon used by Prime in the Generation 1 cartoon episode, "More than Meets the Eye, Part 2", which plugs into either of the headlight-holes that normally accommodate Prime's fists. Additionally, Prime came packaged with a ring binder folder designed to hold the pull-out character file sheets that were included with all the other Transformers Collection reissues. Notably, this figure reinstated the original, thick version of Prime's rifle as the standard for all future Japanese reissues.

More information on Transformers Collection Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Starscream (2003)
ID Number: 9


This redeco of the original Generation 1 Starscream toy came packaged with a remolded right fist for Optimus Prime. This fist featured additional pegs that allowed it to hold the pistol mode Megatron accessory which was also included with Starscream.

More information on Transformers Collection Starscream at TFU.info




 Smallest Transforming Transformers
 You didn't find my trailer, did you? Haw haw.
Convoy (2003)
ID Number: GTF 01A
Accessories: Laser Blaster


Standing only two-and-a-quarter inches tall, Smallest Transforming Transformers Optimus Prime was the smallest fully transforming G1 Optimus toy. He features an accurate transformation sequence based on the original full-sized toy, replacing the detachable hands with actual sculpted fists, and even including a tiny version of his laser rifle. Unsurprisingly, he also has little articulation and is only capable of moving his arms and legs.

His trailer and Roller were also available as a separate set in the same wave, as a rare shortpacked figure with the ID number "GTF-01B". It is a simplified version of the original Combat Deck, lacking features like the interior deco and the lift arm of the artillery robot, but still nonetheless looking fairly accurate to the original toy.

More information on Smallest Transforming Convoy at TFU.info





 
Convoy (Anime Version) (2004)
ID Number: GTF 06
Accessories: Laser Blaster


Smallest Transforming Prime was redecoed the following year for the second wave of the line, into a color scheme based on his Generation 1 cartoon appearance featuring brighter reds and blues, white thighs, yellow details on his bumper, and blue eyes and windows. This version of the figure was made available for a second time in the next wave ("Wave 2.5"), with a new anime-decorated version of the Combat Deck now available as a rare "chase" figure.

More information on Convoy (Anime Version) at TFU.info





 
Convoy (White) (2004)
ID Number: GTF X-4
Accessories: Laser Blaster


Another version of Prime was also available in the second wave of the Smallest Transforming Transformers series as a chase figure. This almost entirely white version of the figure is clearly based on the version of the original Prime cab robot used in the Generation 1 Ultra Magnus figure, but was nonetheless sold as Optimus Prime for the Smallest line.

More information on Convoy (White) at TFU.info





 Can't you guys ever get along?
Convoy vs Megatron (multipack, 2004)
ID Number: VSX
Accessories: Laser Blaster


Available exclusively as a freebie through the September 2004 issue of Dengeki Hobby magazine, this Smallest Transforming Transformers two-pack contains both Optimus Prime and Megatron, in homage to the original 1984 "VSX" giftset containing the original versions of the two leaders.


 Mini Toy Shop Collection
 'Cause we got a li'l ol' convoy, rockin' through the night...
Convoy (2004)
ID Number: 01


At about 2/3 the size of the Smallest Transforming Transformers, this diminutive version of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy is the smallest figure of the Autobot leader made to date. It was sold as part of Takara's blindpacked Mini Toy Shop Collection line, a series of miniaturized figures from numerous classic Takara toylines, including Transformers, Microman, Licca-chan, Choro-Q and others. Both of Prime's modes are represented by non-transforming individual figures, which come together in a two-pack. In-box, his truck form is even packed in a miniature recreation of his original Japanese packaging, which also includes a shrunken version of his sticker sheet. A tiny version of the original Takara Transformers catalog completes the set.
More information on Mini Collection Convoy at tformers.com




 Masterpiece


 And the fandom rejoiced. (Takara Masterpiece Version Pictured)
 (20th Anniversary Version Pictured)
Optimus Prime/Convoy (December 11, 2003/2004)
ID number: MP-1
Accessories: Ion blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe, cardboard trailer (Japanese release only)
 Known designers: Aaron Archer (Hasbro), Hironori Kobayashi and Shogo Hasui (TakaraTomy), Don Figueroa (concept artist)


20th Anniversary Optimus Prime was produced for the stated milestone of the Transformers brand. So successful was the figure that ToyFare magazine ultimately ranked it #1 in their quest for "Best Toy Ever".[5]

Created with the specific purpose of producing an Optimus Prime as accurate to the original animated series as possible, the toy is exceptionally poseable compared to toys prior, partially constructed from die-cast metal, features rubber tires and vacuum-metalized plastic and is heavily detailed, with sliding pistons in its joints and working spring-loaded suspension in vehicle mode. The figure also contains multiple non-intrusive gimmicks, such as a moving mouthplate to emulate Prime's traditional method of speech, flip-up communications panels on the forearms depicting images of Bumblebee and Starscream, and an opening, light-up Matrix chamber in the chest, which contains a removable vacuum-metalized Matrix of Leadership that can also be pulled open. The Matrix is housed within a removable gray battery box which can light up the matrix core when activated.

Optimus Prime comes with many accessories in addition to the aforementioned Matrix, including the character's traditional laser rifle, now termed (and henceforth known as) an ion blaster. The initial release of the figure cast the ion blaster in grey plastic, but later assortments recast it in its more familiar black coloration. Other accessories include a transparent orange energon-axe that plugs into either wrist when Prime's fist is retracted, and even a non-transforming gun mode Megatron weapon, with removable stock, silencer, and scope accessories, in homage to several instances in the Generation 1 cartoon when Prime was forced to wield his enemy. Pack-in bonuses that came with the figure included an inner cardboard tray illustrated to resemble the interior of Prime's Combat Deck, and in later releases, a small poster drawn by Pat Lee.

Optimus has a hidden sculpted mouth underneath his face mask, though attempts at removing the mask from the head may entirely damage the action feature.

Takara's version of the figure was released in their markets slightly earlier, as the first of their long-running Masterpiece line. In addition to coming with a cardboard trailer that the buyer could assemble to "complete" Prime's truck mode, Takara's release differed from Hasbro's by featuring longer smokestacks (kept short on the Hasbro version for safety reasons), and lacking the black scorch-marked "battle damage" paint applications Hasbro included on the figure's shoulders, wrists, and abdomen. In Western markets, the figure was intended to complement the Alternators line.[6]

This sculpt was redecoed by Takara into a golden Lucky Draw figure and later released in its original coloration with a trailer as a "Perfect Edition" (see below for both), while Hasbro would later redeco it into their Classics-branded "DVD Edition". The mold was also used to make Masterpiece Ultra Magnus and "Convoy Black Version", representing one of many drones built in Prime's image, rather than Prime himself.

In Transformers History Collection, a blind-packed Transformers trading figure line, Takara released an add-on hand for Masterpiece Convoy as a Chase figure. The hand holds a Spike Witwicky figure and clips on to the end of Optimus Prime's arm, making the arm slightly longer than normal.

More information on 20th Anniversary Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-1)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-1 Convoy
MP-1 Convoy (Lucky Draw)
MP-1L Convoy Last Production
MP-4 Convoy Perfect Edition
MP-1B Convoy Black Ver.
MP-2 Ultra Magnus

Welcome to Transformers 2010 MP-4S Convoy Sleep Mode

Hasbro:

20th Anniversary Optimus Prime

Classics Optimus Prime (20th Anniversary DVD Edition)




Hironori Kobayashi &Hisashi Yuki (MP-4 trailer)See also: MP-10 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy




 We salute the brave soul who transformed this thing in order to photograph it.
Convoy (Lucky Draw figure, 2004)
ID number: MP-1
Accessories: Ion blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe, cardboard trailer


Offered as part of a Lucky Draw campaign in August 2004, this extremely rare version of Masterpiece Convoy is almost entirely vacuum-metalized gold, lacking any other painted detail or stickers. The parts which are not viable are molded in a flat golden plastic; the only exceptions are its rubber tires, the core of the Matrix and the energon-axe, which remain black, blue and orange, respectively. Whether or not the figure was intended to evoke Optimus Prime's entirely-golden appearance in the cartoon episode "The Golden Lagoon", when he was coated with electrum, is unknown; given that entirely chroming a figure gold is a fairly standard deco for Lucky Draw figures, it may just be happy coincidence more than anything else.

The figure comes packaged in the standard Masterpiece Convoy box, with the only telltale sign of its fabled contents being the replacement of the traditionally silver foil lettering on the box with gold. It's not clear how many were made, but it is thought to be no more than 10 or 20.

More information on gold Masterpiece Convoy at GoldOptimusPrime.com (via Internet Wayback Machine)





 You just paid $170 for a big box on wheels.
Convoy Perfect Edition (September 28, 2006/2009)
ID number: MP-4
Accessories: Trailer/Combat Deck, ion Blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe, cardboard trailer
 Known designers: Hisashi Yuki (TakaraTomy)


For this re-release of Masterpiece Convoy, Takara submitted to the biggest desire fans had for the figure and produced a full-size, fully transforming plastic and die-cast metal trailer. The trailer opens up into Convoy's Combat Deck, with storage for its accessories and a functional repair drone, though Roller is conspicuous by its absence. Like the original Combat Deck, the drone can extend through holes in the roof and front of the closed trailer, and the interior has enough room to accommodate one Alternators figure in vehicle mode. Some reports suggest that the paint on this figure's chest chips more easily than past editions.

This version of Convoy, and Hasbro's 20th Anniversary DVD version of the toy depicts Megatron and Grimlock on its communicators rather than Bumblebee and Starscream.

Continuating the trend begun by their previous release of Masterpiece Ultra Magnus in 2005, Hasbro Australia released Convoy Perfect Edition as a Target Australia exclusive in 2008. Takara themselves then made the figure available for a second time in October 2009.



 Remember that scene from the movie that made you cry and traumatised you as a kid? Well now you can display me doing just that!
Convoy Sleep Mode (2010)
ID number: MP-4S
Accessories: Trailer/Combat Deck, ion Blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe


Released by TakaraTomy as part of a 2010 promotion honoring the "future era" of the original cartoon (which was set in 2010 in Japanese continuity, you see!), this exceptionally morbid re-release of the Masterpiece Convoy figure recolors the Autobot leader in blacks and greys very low-saturated reds and blues, representing his dead body from The Transformers: The Movie—but don't worry, kids, it's actually a "sleep mode", according to the figure's name! Limited to 2010 pieces in Japan (see what they did there?), it comes with all its customary accessories, including the Perfect Edition trailer, redecoed where appropriate: the trailer itself has become translucent, its energon-axe is now transparent grey, and Megatron, in another movie homage, is rendered in translucent purple, evoking the scene depicting his transformation into Galvatron. The figure was also released in other parts of Asia as a limited edition of 2010 as well, combined with the Japanese edition for 4020 total. The Japanese version denotes "Serial Number in Japan: ####/2010" on its bio card with the number out of 2010, while the Asian version denotes "C1 - ####/2010" with the number out of 2010 on its bio card.

This version of Convoy depicts Hot Rod and Ultra Magnus on its communicators.



 Well, it had to end some day...
Convoy Last Production (March 26, 2011)
ID number: MP-1L
Accessories: Ion blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe, sound stage


"Convoy Last Production" was the final re-use of the Masterpiece toy mold before it was at last retired after numerous re-releases and redecos. The figure is essentially identical to the original Japanese MP-1 release, aside from a slightly brighter red, and the addition of the words "LAST SHOT" in Transformers typeface molded into the small of Convoy's back, hidden beneath its headlight-flaps in robot mode. Lacking the trailer of MP-4, the figure instead comes with a redecoed version of the electronic base included with Hasbro's "DVD Edition" of the figure from five years prior, which now features a collection of sixteen soundbytes of Convoy delivering famous lines from the Japanese version of the Generation 1 cartoon, recited by the character's original Japanese voice actor Tesshō Genda. The base was promoted as containing a hint as to the identity of the next Masterpiece toy; as it would turn out, this was a new version of Convoy himself (see below), foreshadowed by a sound clip on the base which played only intermittently, and which had Convoy announce that he would "soon be reborn".

For its release in Korea, Hasbro Asia provided a collector coin featuring truck-mode Optimus Prime on one side and "MP-01L" on the other. The coin came mounted on a card featuring lineart of the Autobot leader's head, the stark black design of which could be mistaken for promoting the earlier "Sleep Mode" release. The limited release (and general lack of enthusiasm for the collector coins in Korea) makes this one of the more difficult Masterpiece coins to find.



 Here we go again...
Convoy (September 24, 2011, 2016)
ID number: MP-10
Accessories: Ion blaster, Matrix of Leadership, energon-axe, trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, Spike Witwicky figurine
 Known designers: Shogo Hasui (TakaraTomy), Junichi Akutsu (concept artist)


MP-10 Convoy, advertised as a "perfect new model" on its packaging, is an entirely new tooling of Generation 1 Optimus Prime. Convoy is now smaller, making him more in-scale with other recent Masterpiece toys, such as Rodimus, and comes with a trailer and various accessories. While the front of the vehicle mode's cab is an accurate depiction of a mid-to-late-1980s Freightliner FLT cabover, the back half, (which is, as usual, made out of Convoy's legs) is much larger and robot-leggier in proportion. (So much that they sculpt a ladder on each side.) 

Many of the small features and electronics of the original Masterpiece mold are left out. Instead, this Convoy features better overall cartoon accuracy (chest interior, head, etc.), an extensive red paint job that covers much of his red plastic, corrected robot mode proportions, improved articulation, and its gun can now collapse and store inside a compartment on its back in either mode. In addition to Convoy's trailer, which can transform into Combat Deck, it also comes with Roller, a small Spike Witwicky figurine, a die-cast metal Matrix of Leadership (with a clear blue plastic center), and an energy axe that slips over Convoy's right hand. Spike can fit inside the cab in vehicle mode, ride in Roller's seat, or fit into any of the seating compartments inside Convoy's trailer. Roller has options to plug in Convoy's gun or pull Convoy's trailer, and the trailer itself can store Convoy's weapons in any mode. Although not easily breakable, care must be taken for posing the index fingers; extending the finger even far would cause it to pop off.

MP-10 immediately became the gold standard in terms of scale for the Masterpiece line, with all subsequent releases being sized to best match him for nearly a decade.

This figure was re-released in 2016, with the packaging now advertising the "Long Life Design" award which the Masterpiece line won that same year.[7] This mold was also used to make MP-10B Black Convoy.

See also: MP-10 Hasbro and Hasbro Masterpiece.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-10)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-10 Convoy
MP-10A Convoy (BAPE ver.)
MP-10 Convoy Mode "Eva"
MP-10R Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.)
MP-10K Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.)
MP-711 Convoy (7‑Eleven ver.)
MP-10ASL Convoy (atmos safari LEBRON Ver.)
MP-10DC Convoy (atmos safari duckcamo Ver.)
MP-10ASE Convoy (atmos safari ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.)
MP-10ASV Convoy (atmos safari VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.)
MP-10B Black Convoy

Golden Lagoon Convoy

Hasbro:

Transformers (2010) Masterpiece Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Year of the Horse Optimus Prime

Shattered Glass Shattered Glass Optimus Prime

Masterpiece MP-10 Optimus Prime

Collaborative MP-10G Optimus Prime Ecto-35 Edition




Shogo HasuiSee also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy




 In the jungle / the mighty jungle / the Convoy sleeps tonight
MP Convoy (BAPE ver.) (2014-07-19)
ID number: MP-10A
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in 2014, MP Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. is a trailer-less redeco of the MP-10 mold sporting a green color scheme matching the Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. of the original G1 toy, with "BAPE's famous camouflage pattern" and an ape head print on the shoulder replacing the usual faction symbol.



 Unlike Shinji, this guy won't go strangling his girlfriend or dating his mother's clone, if he even has a mother...
Convoy Mode "Eva" (2014-11-28)
ID number: MP-10
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe, trailer/Battle Station, Roller, Spike Witwicky figurine


Exclusive to the TakaraTomy Mall and limited to 1,000 pieces, this figure was released as part of the Transformers × Evangelion crossover. It uses the MP-10 mold with all the same accessories, decoed in the green and purple color scheme of Eva-01. The trailer, Roller, and Spike figure are done up in Nerv-themed colors.



 Because one overpriced clothing store exclusive MP10 repaint wasn't enough. Anyone like to give the odds for a BAPE Ver. BLACK in 2017 then?
Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.) (2015-11)
ID number: MP-10R
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in 2015, MP Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. is a trailer-less redeco of the MP-10 mold sporting a unique deep red color scheme matching the Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. RED of the original G1 toy, with "BAPE's famous camouflage pattern" and an ape head print on the shoulder replacing the usual faction symbol.



 Optimus Prime Mini Die-Cast figure (2016-11-26)
ID number: 1
Included with MP-33 Inferno


Replacing the collector coins in previous releases, the Asia release of Masterpiece Inferno comes with a mini Optimus Prime figure, the first in a range of non transformable collectables made from lost art Die-Cast metal and based on the corresponding Masterpiece figure (MP10).



 As predicted. What's the chances of a new BAPE color scheme? Teal Blue or Burnt Gold would be nice if you're reading this, BAPE.
Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.) (2017)
ID number: MP-10K
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe


Available exclusively from Japanese clothing company A Bathing Ape in 2017, MP Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. is a trailer-less redeco of the MP-10 mold sporting a unique black color scheme matching the Convoy Reissue BAPE Ver. BLACK of the original G1 toy, with "BAPE's famous camouflage pattern" and an ape head print on the shoulder replacing the usual faction symbol.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-10)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-10 Convoy
MP-10A Convoy (BAPE ver.)
MP-10 Convoy Mode "Eva"
MP-10R Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.)
MP-10K Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.)
MP-711 Convoy (7‑Eleven ver.)
MP-10ASL Convoy (atmos safari LEBRON Ver.)
MP-10DC Convoy (atmos safari duckcamo Ver.)
MP-10ASE Convoy (atmos safari ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.)
MP-10ASV Convoy (atmos safari VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.)
MP-10B Black Convoy

Golden Lagoon Convoy

Hasbro:

Transformers (2010) Masterpiece Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Year of the Horse Optimus Prime

Shattered Glass Shattered Glass Optimus Prime

Masterpiece MP-10 Optimus Prime

Collaborative MP-10G Optimus Prime Ecto-35 Edition




Shogo HasuiSee also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy




 At your 7-Eleven, freedom's waiting for you.
Convoy (7-Eleven ver.) (February 28, 2018)
ID number: MP-711
Accessories: Ion blaster, Matrix of Leadership, energon-axe, trailer, Roller, Spike Witwicky figurine


Available exclusively from Japanese 7-11 stores, MP-711 is an Ultra Magnus-decoed Convoy—white with green and blue highlighting—themed with 7-Eleven logos. Unlike most MP-10 redecos, he comes with a trailer, Roller, and Spike figure, who is sporting a 7-Eleven uniform. Roller and the combat deck come with 7-Eleven logos, however Convoy's shoulder logos are stickers with the option of a green 7-Eleven logo or the standard Autobot logo on either shoulder.



 Anyone up for a game of basketrek?
Convoy (atmos safari LeBron Ver.) (March 15, 2019)
ID number: MP-10ASL
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe


Exclusive to Japanese Atmos stores, this deco of Optimus matches Atmos Safari LeBron James sneakers, in a fetching scheme of vibrant orange plus black and gray with extra details and logos. Unfortunately he does not come with a ballobot accessory.



 All this for the low, low price of an arm, a leg, and your firstborn son! (Note: Basketball accessory not included.)
Convoy (August 31, 2019)
ID number: MP-44
Accessories: Ion Blaster, 2 beam effect parts, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe, damaged head, alternate head, Starscream head, Starscream shoulder intakes, damaged chestpiece, jetpack, trailer, Roller, Spike Witwicky figurine, Sparkplug Witwicky figurine, Carly figurine


An entirely new mold released to commemorate the brand's 35th anniversary, the third Masterpiece Convoy is a much more complex and cartoon-accurate figure than previous releases. At 50,000 yen (approximately $450 USD), this Convoy had the highest MSRP of any mass-market Transformers toy until War for Cybertron Unicron's $575 price tag was announced.

Alongside the Trailer (which retains the same function and can hold 4 standard-sized Autobot cars at a time when open), Roller, the Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, and Energon Axe, the Combat Deck's base can be removed and with the new flip-out wheels, Roller (now cast in stark grey with silver rims) can tow it around. The cannon and arm section can also be removed so it can function as a flight stand, while an adapter for MP-41 Dinobot's display stand is also included, and the Ion Blaster now has 2 effect parts, which can simulate blaster fire and when used with the Sideswipe rocket pack included, can be used as booster flames. He also comes with a fuel hose like that on the original figure, as well as a soundbox feature that can be switched between recorded lines by the character's original Japanese (Tesshō Genda) and English (Peter Cullen) voice actors, with transformation effects (though the ascending and descending transformation sounds are spliced together in his English voice) and Douglas Walsh music to boot! As to note, Cullen's clips are closer to the recent Aligned portrayals.

Like MP-36 Megatron, Convoy includes a battle-damaged head and an abdomen cover to replicate the war wounds in the climatic battle in the movie, and alongside a newly designed figure of Spike, he comes with two of Sparkplug and Carly, any of them capable of riding inside via 2 small doors on the side of the cab. A second alternate head is based on his head's rounder design seen in the first season of the cartoon and the Marvel Comics. His accessories can be stored in the trailer's removable undercarriage.

This figure, with the included intakes and alternate head in place, also doubles as Starscream from "Megatron's Master Plan, Part 1".

Unfortunately, Convoy has been known to suffer from differing quality control issues. Because of a design flaw, certain plastic parts in his lower ratcheted knee joints tend to build stress during movement and eventually break. Furthermore, grey and yellow paint in parts that tend to get scratched and bumped during transformation have been prone to paint chipping. Some units have come with their soft plastic ear antennas on different heads warped in-package. The human minifigures can have their ball jointed limbs rather easily popping out of their sockets and misassembled ( in this case, Carly with her groin part in reverse from the front).

Unlike MP-01 and MP-10, this version of Convoy did not get a fully localized Hasbro release for English-speaking markets. However, it is being imported by Hasbro through numerous retail outlets with additional branding using the localized Optimus Prime name and presumably with the same Hasbro-branded slipcover and English safety sheet given to other contemporary Masterpiece releases. In Canada, the figure is being released as an EB Games exclusive, where he'll cost even more than the game consoles sold there! Hasbro's online product description neglects to mention the voice box gimmick, possibly due to English-speaking audiences' unfamiliarity with Japanese Transformers media and the fairly late reveal of his English-language voice clips.

This mold was redecoed as Black Convoy, with the sound gimmick removed, and without the trailer, battle damaged, and Starscream parts.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-44)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-44 Convoy
MP-49 Black Convoy




See also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-10 Convoy




Convoy (atmos duckcamo Ver.) (March 26, 2020)
ID number: MP-10DC
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe


Exclusive to Japanese Atmos stores, this deco of Optimus matches Atmos Safari Duck sneakers, in a fetching scheme of greens plus vibrant orange.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-10)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-10 Convoy
MP-10A Convoy (BAPE ver.)
MP-10 Convoy Mode "Eva"
MP-10R Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.)
MP-10K Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.)
MP-711 Convoy (7‑Eleven ver.)
MP-10ASL Convoy (atmos safari LEBRON Ver.)
MP-10DC Convoy (atmos safari duckcamo Ver.)
MP-10ASE Convoy (atmos safari ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.)
MP-10ASV Convoy (atmos safari VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.)
MP-10B Black Convoy

Golden Lagoon Convoy

Hasbro:

Transformers (2010) Masterpiece Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Year of the Horse Optimus Prime

Shattered Glass Shattered Glass Optimus Prime

Masterpiece MP-10 Optimus Prime

Collaborative MP-10G Optimus Prime Ecto-35 Edition




Shogo HasuiSee also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy






Let's see what you can see...
This article is in need of images.




These other Atmos variants were revealed in 2019, but to date have not been released. All have the same accessories.


Convoy (atmos ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.) (black plus vibrant teal)



Convoy (atmos VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)(light grey plus light gold)



Convoy (atmos TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.) (black plus shocking green and gold)



Convoy (atmos TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.) (yellow and black tiger stripes plus white)



 Optimus Prall, Masterpiece flavored!
Skyfire (2023)
ID number: MP-57
 Known designers: Kōjin Ōno (TakaraTomy), Yuki Ohshima (concept artist)


Included with the massive Masterpiece Skyfire is an articulated, cartoon-accurate figurine of "Convoy", made to scale with Skyfire's jet mode.


 Robotmasters
 My vehicle mode is dangerous and unroadworthy!
G1 Convoy (2004)
ID number: RM-01
Accessories: "Convoy Gun", missile launcher, missile, energon-axe, 4 fists (2 left, 2 right)


 Robotmasters "G1 Convoy" (as he is amusingly referred to even in fiction) visibly takes its cue from 20th Anniversary Optimus Prime, featuring a similar sculpt, but sharing few to none of the larger toy's other attributes, least of all anything that could be described as a successful transformation.

G1 Convoy comes with two sets of fists, each pair featuring differently-shaped fist holes: one pair with square holes to hold the figure's "Convoy Gun" (as his ion blaster is called), and the other with round 3mm-compatible holes to hold the spring-loaded translucent blue missile launcher (a generic accessory also available with Robotmasters Beast Megatron and Beast Convoy). The fists are swapped out by simply popping them out of the wrist-hinge that holds them in place; the figure also includes an energon-axe that can be inserted into the wrist instead of a fist.

Due to being molded in translucent plastic, the waist section is prone to breakage, so exercise some caution. 

More information on G1 Convoy at TFU.info





 I'm shiny!
G1 Convoy + DVD (2004)
ID number: RM-10
Accessories: "Convoy Gun", missile launcher, missile, energon-axe, 4 fists (2 left, 2 right)


 This special edition release of G1 Convoy is decked out in metallic paint and a tint of yellow for his eyes, with an extra Autobot insignia tampographed onto his right shoulder, and a black Convoy Gun. The figure comes packed with a DVD containing the first episode of the Robotmasters cartoon, "Fight! The Group of the Strongest Commanders!".

More information on G1 Convoy + DVD at TFU.info





 I'm blacky!
G1 Convoy Limited Black Version (2005)
ID number: RM-01
Accessories: "Convoy Gun", missile launcher, missile, energon-axe, 4 fists (2 left, 2 right), Calamity Defenser


 Available only via mail-order through Dengeki Hobby magazine, the "Limited Black Version" of G1 Convoy is just that: a straight black repaint of the G1 Convoy toy. He comes with all his original accessories, appropriately redecoed (including a silver version of his axe), as well as a gold-chromed version of the "Calamity Defenser" solitarium weapon that came with Psycho-Orb.

More information on G1 Convoy Limited Black Version at TFU.info





 The third one is totally Shattered Glass Prime!
G1 Convoy (Lucky Draw figure, 2005)
ID number: RM-01
Accessories: "Convoy Gun", missile launcher, missile, energon-axe, 4 fists (2 left, 2 right)


When Robotmasters G1 Convoy was turned into a Lucky Draw figure, the color scheme into which he was redecoed was chosen through a children's coloring contest held in the pages of the December 2004 issue of TV Magazine. The winning entry was a... startling mixture of blue, orange and two shades of green, earning the toy the fan-appointed nickname of "Crayola Convoy". As with all Lucky Draws, it is extremely rare, with only ten units produced.

More information on "Crayola Convoy" at LuckyDrawTransformers.com




 Universe (2003)
 Why won't they repaint my full-size toy in these colours?!?
Optimus Prime (Spy Changer, 2004)

 Universe "Spy Changer" Optimus Prime is a redeco of the Robots in Disguise Scourge Spychanger toy. He replaces most of the black plastic with predominantly red and blue, with silver for detailing, with an overall deco making him resemble the original Optimus Prime. Like most Spychangers, he features high speed axles and can roll very well across smooth surfaces, but lacks the weight to propel him quickly.

 Originally a KB Toys exclusive, the first release of this toy (and the others in the assortment) did not have any sub-line designation at all, but later releases for other chains, most notably "budget" chains like Family Dollar, marked them as Universe product.

This mold would later be redecoed into a Spychanger version of the live-action movie Optimus Prime.

More information on Universe Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Collector's Edition


 "Welcome to The Past!"
Orion Pax (2005)
ID number: 67
Accessories: "Barrelroller" robot/"electromagnetic lift handle", "laser rifle"


 This Collector's Edition Japanese e-HOBBY exclusive is a redeco of Targetmaster Kup, released in conjunction with Kup's 2005 reissue in The Transformers Collection. He transforms into a Cybertronian pickup truck, and is colored to represent Orion Pax as he appeared in the Generation 1 television series episode "War Dawn".

 Like the Kup reissue, he comes with both the original release's gun and a Targetmaster, in this case Barrelroller, a redeco of Recoil. The original-release rifle has been slightly retooled to fit in the wider fist-holes of the Targetmaster vesion of the mold.

 Just as the reissued Kup came with a reissue of Wheelie, this set also included a redeco of Wheelie as Orion's best friend, Dion.

 In later years, other Kup toys would be repainted into Orion Pax under the Tribute line, and also the Legacy "A Hero Is Born" double pack.

More information on Orion Pax at TFU.info




 Hybrid Style
Convoy (2006)
ID number: T.H.S.-02 Expensive and tiny.
Accessories: Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, ion blaster, gas pump, energon-axe, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, rocket pack, 8 hands (4 left, 4 right), Autobot insignia stand
 Known designers: Shōji Kawamori (TakaraTomy)


 Hybrid Style Optimus Prime is an insanely detailed and complex transforming toy, created under the supervision of famed mecha designer Shōji Kawamori. Standing only three and three-quarter inches tall in robot mode, the figure is partially constructed from die-cast metal and features one of the most complex transformation sequences ever seen on a Transformers figure of its size. Alas, the small size of the figure also works against it, as it required several design concessions that resulted in (if we're being nice about it) an unimpressive cab mode.

Prime is loaded with a ridiculous number of features and accessories. The robot itself is highly poseable, and both the smokestacks on Prime's shoulders and the fuel tanks on his legs can be rotated forward to act as guns, even featuring sculpted detail to this effect. As ever, he comes with a trailer that opens up into his crazy-detailed Combat Deck, featuring more action features than ever before. In trailer mode alone, it features a flip-down support stand so it can stand alone, a spring-loaded pop-out ramp instead of a fold-down one, and when the trailer is split for transformation, the traditional support legs underneath automatically swing out into place. The trailer houses most of Prime's accessories, including his ion blaster (with a moveable ammo clip to allow for multiple poses) and energon-axe, as well as his classic gas pump accessory, now with a poseable wire instead of a rubber hose. Two fold-out compartments provide storage space for six of Prime's interchangeable fists, while the other two remain attached the robot: two clenched, two open, a pointing right fist, a tilted left fist (for holding the ion blaster's ammo clip), and two fists with slots to grip the miniscule Matrix of Leadership that fits in a tiny chamber in Prime's chest. The Combat Deck's artillery robot features two flip-out handles that Prime can grip as if aiming the drone's guns, and Roller is also included, with three different 3mm ports to hold Prime's gun and gas pump. Lastly, Prime comes with a rocket pack like those used by the Autobots in such Generation 1 cartoon episodes as "Dinobot Island", and a stand shaped like the Autobot insignia that allows him to be displayed in mid-air, as if in flight. The rocket pack also has 3mm ports for Prime's weapons, and stores on the front of the trailer in vehicle mode.

Purchase of a Hybrid Style Optimus Prime at a Japanese Toys"R"Us store allowed the buyer the option of also purchasing the exclusive Smallest Transforming Transformers Hot Rod toy. 

The toy also received a Hasbro release 11 years later under the Platinum Edition line.

More information on Hybrid Style Convoy on TFU.info





 Yanigerlicious!
Convoy Black Version (2006)
ID number: T.H.S.-02B
Accessories: Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, ion blaster, gas pump, energon-axe, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, rocket pack, 8 fists (4 left, 4 right), Autobot insignia stand, 2 missile launchers, 2 heads


Available exclusively through e-HOBBY, this black and teal repaint of Hybrid Style Convoy features the traditional "Nemesis Prime" color scheme, but represents a version of Optimus Prime himself. In addition to all the original accessories, the toys also includes several more deliciously metatextual goodies, themed around the Generation 2 toy and comics: two new large guns patterned after the new weapons wielded by the Generation 2 Optimus Prime toy, and two additional (blue) Prime heads that can be swapped with the figure's regular noggin, sculpted explicitly in the style of Generation 2 comic artist Derek Yaniger. One head is pristine, the other decorated to match the battle damage seen on the cover of the first Generation 2 issue.

As the more franchise-savvy TransFans may realise, these extra parts, plus the black trailer of Convoy Black Version, can all be used to modify the original, red Hybrid Style Optimus Prime into a comic-accurate Generation 2 version, complete with a black trailer, trailer-mounted guns and your choice of Yaniger-style heads.

This figure came in a unique box, packaged with a mini-comic, both illustrated by Hidetsugu Yoshioka.



 Texas tea.
Convoy Black Gold Version (November 25, 2013)
ID number: T.H.S.-02
Accessories: Trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, ion blaster, gas pump, energon-axe, Autobot Matrix of Leadership, rocket pack, 8 fists (4 left, 4 right), Autobot insignia stand, 2 missile launchers


Available only in China markets, Convoy Black Gold Version is yet another black repaint of the first Hybrid Style Convoy figure, with some gold detailing. Convoy Black Gold Version does not include any extra accessories unlike the Black Version release above. 


 Alternators/Binaltech


 I don't come with a creepy girl...
 ...and neither do I...
Optimus Prime (2006)
Alternator ID number: 21
Binaltech ID number: BT-22
Accessories: Engine/gun
 Known designers: Steve Bono (Hasbro)


 Alternators Optimus Prime transforms into an accurate 1:24 scale Dodge Ram SRT-10. The vehicle mode features rubber tires, functional steering, opening hood, tail gate and doors with a detailed cabin interior. Several of the details of his robot mode body are based on the sculpt of the 20th Anniversary Optimus Prime figure, but the head itself shares more similarities with the Powermaster mold. He is armed with a small pistol which transforms into his vehicle mode engine.

This figure was originally conceived by Hasbro to be another character (exactly who is unknown), rather than Optimus Prime, but Takara insisted that the toy be made into Optimus to help it sell well in their markets, as the vehicle mode was no particular draw, given its scarcity in Japan. Reportedly, the figure cost twice as much as other Alternators to construct, so Hasbro had to bow to this demand so Takara would help fund it. Ironically, Takara eventually wound up soliciting the figure not as Prime, but as his Super-God Masterforce lookalike, Ginrai (perhaps connected to the Powermasteresque headsculpt), before its Japanese release was cancelled and moved over into the Kiss Players toyline (see below).

 It took two further years, but this figure was eventually released as part of the Japanese counterpart to the Alternators line (Binaltech) in 2008. Binaltech Convoy features some additional paint details, like his silver pelvis, additional patterns on his shoulders, and red paint on his engine-gun, and like all Binaltech figures, he also includes die-cast metal pieces. Unlike previous Binaltech releases, a bio-card was not included.

This sculpt was also used to create Alternators Nemesis Prime.

Archive of Binaltech Convoy's bio and tech specs
More information on Alternators/Binaltech Convoy at TFU.info





Alternators mold: Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Alternators 21 Optimus Prime
24 Nemesis Prime

Takara:

Binaltech BT-17 Black Convoy
BT-22 Convoy

Kiss Players Convoy



 Kiss Players
 ...And yet, I do!
Convoy X Melissa (2006)
Accessories: Engine/gun, "Surfblade" surfboard/sword weapon, Marissa Faireborn figurine with stand and 2 pairs of arms and legs
 Known designers: Yuki Ohshima (concept artist)


 Kiss Players Convoy is a redeco of Alternators Optimus Prime. While the figures may appear similar at first glance, given that Kiss Players Prime is still red, blue and black, there are many subtle differences, not least of all the replacement of the Alternators figure's bare, flat red plastic with a deep metallic red paint. Several of his body parts are cast in different colors of plastic (for example, his shins, formerly black, are now blue, while his formerly-blue hands are now black), and he features more intricate paint applications on his shoulders, and especially his pelvis, which is decorated to look like Prime's traditional bumper.

In addition to the small engine-pistol of his Alternators figure, Prime comes with the "Surfblade", a pink surfboard that can be reconfigured into either two small knives or a large double-bladed sword. As with all the Kiss Players figures, Prime also comes with a PVC figurine of a cute girl: in this case, Marissa Faireborn, who can perch upon his shoulder or sit in his driver's seat, and comes with two pairs of interchangeable arms and legs. Additionally, the set includes a CD featuring the first five episodes of the Kiss Players radio drama, as well as the exclusive bonus audio adventure, "Someday, Beneath the Sun."

This set was originally intended to be released under the Binaltech Asterisk line, as "Black Convoy meets Marissa", but this release was cancelled before it was officially even announced.



Alternators mold: Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Alternators 21 Optimus Prime
24 Nemesis Prime

Takara:

Binaltech BT-17 Black Convoy
BT-22 Convoy

Kiss Players Convoy



 Titanium Series
 Well he is a car... in a car crash.
Optimus Prime (6" Cybertron Heroes, 2006)
Accessories: Ion blaster, display stand


Released in the first wave of Titanium Series 6-inch Cybertron Heroes figures, this figure is based on Optimus Prime's Cybertronian form as seen in the Dreamwave comic book "The War Within". Prime transforms into a comic-accurate Cybertronian truck in a few steps, and his ion blaster can be slotted in the back of the truck mode cab for storage. 

The figure was personally designed by comic artist Don Figueroa, who created the original comic design in the first place, and his signature is left on the figure in the most literal way: the word "DON" can be seen sculpted into the barrel of his silver ion blaster. The paint on the handle of his ion blaster scuffs rather easily when placed into his hands.

As a Titanium figure, Prime is made in large part from die-cast metal, but like so many of the other toys in the Titanium line, his plastic joints have trouble supporting his heavy metal weight. For that reason, the tiny insufficient clips that hold his shoulders in place are highly prone to breaking off, leaving his shoulders floppy and unable to be secured in robot mode. He comes with the generic display stand shared by all of the 6" "Cybertron Heroes", with a unique removable nameplate.

More information on Titanium Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 Now we just need a dam....
War Within Optimus Prime vs. War Within Megatron (two-pack, 2007)
Accessories: Ion blaster


This Toys"R"Us exclusive Titanium two-pack includes the previously-released War Within Optimus Prime figure along with the War Within Megatron Megatron figure and an exclusive variant cover of The War Within #5.

As the mass retail release of the last waves of the Titanium "Cybertron Heroes" figures was delayed for several months, the two-pack version of Megatron was at least initially more widely available than the individually packaged one.

Despite being mentioned in the joint instructions leaflet for the set, neither figure includes their display base.

There appears to be a variant of this two-pack: One version has the Optimus Prime figure more or less identical to its individual release, whereas the other one drops the additional black paint weathering, making him much cleaner-looking.


 Classics


 The definitive Generation 1 Optimus Prime mold of 2006.  And 2008. And 2012. And 2014. And 2016.
Optimus Prime (Voyager Class, 2006)
Accessories: Smokestacks/laser cannon, wind vane/ion blaster
 Known designers: Eric Siebenaler (Hasbro), Takio Ejima and Alex Kubalsky (TakaraTomy), Don Figueroa (concept artist)


 Classics Optimus Prime is an all-new modern Optimus Prime design based upon the original Optimus Prime, as is the intention for the Classics toyline. He transforms into a modern cab-over style truck of made up model, dominated by a large wind vane on his roof. As with most Classics toys, he features a heat-sensitive rubsign.

In robot mode, his wind vane transforms into a large ion blaster, and his smokestacks transform into a smaller laser cannon. Additionally, both weapons can combine together to form a double-barrelled over-shoulder weapon. Undocumented in the instructions, Optimus can also use the wind vane as a shield, If one of his fists is folded down. The unusually high amount of yellow paint used throughout the body is supposed to emulate the yellow stickers from the original G1 toy. The toy has a trailer hitch, but does not come with a trailer.

Unfortunately, the yellow paint on his forearms tends to flake off.
More information on Classics Voyager Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Classics mold: Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Classics Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

Universe Nemesis Prime

Age of Extinction Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Optimus Prime

Fun Publications:

Timelines Optimus Prime
Knight Ginrai

TakaraTomy:

Henkei! Henkei! C-01 Convoy
Convoy Clear Version
Convoy (campaign prize)

United Ultra Magnus
Black Optimus Prime

e-HOBBY:

Cloud TFC-A01 Optimus Prime

Legends LG-EX Magna Convoy




 They did me right, once.
The Ultimate Battle (Multi-pack, 2006)
Accessories: Laser rifle
 Known designers: Eric Siebenaler (Hasbro), Joe Kyde (deco artist)


 This Classics Optimus Prime is a smaller, Deluxe Class figure with a noticeable physical resemblance to Takara's Robotmasters Prime figure, and a transformation that is about as successful. The figure is armed with a tommy gun-shaped laser rifle that transforms into a turret-like configuration and mounts on the rear of his truck mode, and features a spinning "power punch" action that sees the whole upper half of his torso spin when a button on his back is pressed. Pressing the button "unlocks" the spinning mechanism; pull hard on the button, and you can lock the torso back into place.

In the United States, Prime was only available in a special two-pack with a similarly unique Classics Megatron toy, and the specially-produced "The Ultimate Battle" DVD (which is, inappropriately enough, entirely about the Unicron Trilogy). The two-pack (including the DVD) was also available as a Walmart exclusive "Bonus Value" version with two randomly selected members of the Cybertron Giant Planet Mini-Con Team, in the combinations Overcast/Longarm, Overcast/Deepdive and Deepdive/Longarm. International markets, including European countries, saw the two-pack in a considerably smaller, differently-shaped box that was lacking the DVD case (the DVD was instead made available separately). In addition, Mexico, Singapore and some European countries such as the Netherlands and Hungary also received the two figures on individual cardbacks. For the United States market, the two-pack was rebranded and re-released in 2003 Universe-branded packaging later in 2007, available from Dollar General, Big Lots and KB Toys, and again in 2010 Transformers-branded packaging in 2011, this time available from Dollar General and Big Bad Toy Store.

This figure was later also made available without redeco as part of the "Leader for the Ages" two-pack released under the live-action movie line (see below) and saw several redecos for Universe ("Special Edition", below), Welcome to Transformers 2010 ("Sons of Cybertron", below) and United (below).

More information on Classics Deluxe Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 Discounted at a Walmart near you.
Optimus Prime (20th Anniversary DVD Edition, 2006)
Accessories: Ion blaster, Autobot Matrix of Leader, gun mode Megatron, Megatron's scope, stock and silencer, energon-axe, display stand


 Produced to coincide with the 20th anniversary of The Transformers: The Movie and its release on DVD by Sony, this edition of Prime is a redeco of his 20th Anniversary figure. It replaces the original's metallic paint with flatter colors and does away with any and all vacuum-metalized plastic, as well as altering several other small details across the body, like the color of the lights on his feet and chest.

Prime comes with all the accessories of his previous release, although his ever-changing ion blaster is now somewhat confusingly cast in blue plastic. He features one major additional accessory: an electronic display base sculpted with the image of the Matrix and the Autobot insignia. Pressing the insignia's crest triggers a series of electronic soundbytes, mostly quotes from the movie recited not by original actor Peter Cullen, but by Hasbro's in-house actor, Ron Hayden: "Autobots, transform and roll out!", "I want you to make a special run to Autobot City," "Megatron must be stopped!", "All we need is a little energon, and a lot of luck," and two samples of the classic transformation sound effect, one ascending, one descending.

The display stand itself was later redecoed as a mail-in prize for TakaraTomy's Welcome to Transformers 2010 promotion, intended to be used with Masterpiece Rodimus Convoy, and again when it was packaged with the "Last Production" run of the Masterpiece Optimus Prime toy.

More information on DVD Edition Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-1)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-1 Convoy
MP-1 Convoy (Lucky Draw)
MP-1L Convoy Last Production
MP-4 Convoy Perfect Edition
MP-1B Convoy Black Ver.
MP-2 Ultra Magnus

Welcome to Transformers 2010 MP-4S Convoy Sleep Mode

Hasbro:

20th Anniversary Optimus Prime

Classics Optimus Prime (20th Anniversary DVD Edition)




Hironori Kobayashi &Hisashi Yuki (MP-4 trailer)See also: MP-10 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy




 Subservience to Corporate America is the duty of all servile beings.
Pepsi Optimus Prime (Autobot, 2007)
Accessories: Left & right fists, ion blaster, trailer


Inspired by the 1985 promotional version of Optimus Prime that featured Pepsi stickers on his trailer, this outlandish incarnation of Prime is a slightly altered version of Takara's 2005 Pepsi Convoy figure (which represented a different character to Prime). The figure was only sold by Hasbro Toy Shop at various conventions, and given away as a promotional prize by Pepsi, via their Mountain Dew brand.

A redeco of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime cab robot sporting an egregious number of Pepsi-themed paint masks and details, Pepsi Prime's differences from Pepsi Convoy are minimal: he features the shortened smokestacks previously seen on the Commemorative Series release of the mold, the blue pattern on his decals are different (matching the American Pepsi can/bottle look at the time rather than the one used in Japan), and also has a different layout for the Pepsi logo on his left shoulder. Like Pepsi Convoy, he comes with an entirely new trailer unit, specially designed to carry either a single 500ml (16.9 oz) size soft drink bottle, three 350ml cans, or 12 bottle caps (bottle cap figurines being a common and popular collectible item in Japan). In a first for the Prime mold, the figure's fists store in holes on the underside of the trailer while he is in vehicle mode. His ion blaster (which also stores under the trailer) is the first Hasbro reissue to feature the original, thick-barrel sculpt, which was reinstated to the mold by the Transformers Collection release of Prime a few years prior.

More information on Pepsi Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Sports Label
 Comfortable yet stylish jogging is the right of all fashionable beings.
Convoy featuring Nike Free 7.0 (2007)
ID number: 01
Accessories: Ion blaster


Surely one of the strangest examples of licensed Transformers products, Sports Label Convoy transforms into a shoe. Something of a shellformer, this baffling incarnation of Prime is colored primarily white and red in his alt mode of a realistic-looking (if notably undersized) Nike Free 7.0 sneaker, complete with gratuitously long real fabric shoelaces. In robot mode, he is made instantly recognizable by his incorporation of some additional blue and silver in predictable areas, and a traditionally Prime-styled head. Less traditionally, and somewhat perversely, Prime's feet are sculpted in the likeness of his own sneaker mode, making it seem like he's wearing himself!

His gun splits into two halves and stores inside his kibble in shoe mode; in an undocumented feature, it has two handle pegs on opposite sides, so that it can be held either at its far end or halfway along its length. The gun halves can also be plugged together in two different ways.

This figure was, in fact, the only mold in the Sports Label line. It was redecoed into the "Marine Free" version of Prime himself (see below), and given a new head to create Sports Label Megatron

More information on Sport Label Convoy at TFU.info





 Prime's secret Magnus cosplay.
Convoy featuring Nike Free 7.0 Marine Version
ID number: 01
Accessories: Ion blaster


A redeco of the first Sports Label Convoy, this figure transforms into a white, navy, and grey sneaker. Promotional images for the figure depicted its robot mode as white and aqua-blue, but the finished product was visibly darker, produced in shades of off-white and dark teal. In either coloration, it sure as heck looks like it should be Ultra Magnus, but for whatever reason... it ain't.


 Encore
 
Convoy (2007)
ID number: 01
Accessories: Laser Blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller (grey), 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump


A new series of reissues means a new release of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure, and Takara's Encore series proved no different. This edition of the figure featured no extra accessories, but it did include the original, thick-barrelled version of Prime's rifle, as reinstated to the mold by the Transformers Collection version of the toy a few years prior. Both his blue and red plastics are lighter than normal, though not to the extent of Hasbro's subsequent 25th Anniversary release.

Notably, this edition addresses the small but persistent issue of the Autobot insignias on Prime's shoulders: Ever since 1984, applying the stickers evenly had been a challenge due to small bumps the figure's shoulders are textured with. Like the Pepsi Convoy figure released two years prior, Encore Convoy replaces the stickers with tampographs.


 Music Label


 You just paid 140 bucks for a new headsculpt, didn't you? I bet you don't even own an iPod...
Convoy —playing iPod speaker— (2007)
Accessories: Trailer/iPod dock, 2 fists (left and right), ion blaster


 Hot on the heels of their licensing deals with Pepsi and Nike, TakaraTomy got themselves a slice of Apple™ pie and released Convoy —playing iPod speaker— as part of their small, musically-themed Music Label line. This version of Prime is an all-white redeco of the original Generation 1 cab robot, which (much like the "Marine Version" of Prime from the Sports Label line) makes it seem like he ought to be Ultra Magnus. The figure is actually even derived from the retool of the mold created for the original Ultra Magnus figure, as distinguished by the elongated hubcap pegs on the front wheels. Like Pepsi Prime before it, the figure's fists now store in peg holes on the under side of its trailer. The toy lacks any of the original Prime's stickers (even the silver stripe on his chest is now a paint operation) and includes the original thick-barrelled version of Prime's blaster. The toy features a brand new headsculpt based on the 20th Anniversary Prime figure, given additional poseability not previously seen on the figure by being mounted on a ball joint.

This, of course, is all secondary to the main draw of the figure: it pulls an all-white trailer, which transforms into a working iPod speaker dock by rotating a substantial wedge of its full length 90 degrees . The dock features three working buttons; power, volume up and volume down, as well as an Autobot sigil indicator light. Included is a wall-plugging (Japanese) A/C adaptor with a long lead that plugs into the reverse of the trailer. Although American importers shouldn't have too much trouble, those living in parts of the world using higher strength A/C current outlets should be warned NOT to simply plug the A/C adaptor in with only a socket adapter, as this will overload the device and fry it completely. Buying the appropriate kind of universal A/C adaptor with advice from an electronics specialty shop is recommended.

More information on Music Label Convoy at TFU.info





 I'm gonna call you Peanut.
Optimus Prime —speakers for iPod— (2008)
Accessories: Trailer/iPod dock, 2 fists (left and right), ion blaster


Designated "Optimus Prime" rather than the traditional Japanese "Convoy", this figure is a redeco of the previous Music Label Convoy figure into the character's traditional red, blue and silver color scheme. Unlike previous re-issues of the mold, iPod Optimus Prime's sports a paint application similar to KissPlayers Convoy, having its ABS/PVC parts painted over with a thin layer of his iconic red, white (silver if you will) and blue motif paint applications (with the exception of his iPod docking trailer). This includes his trailer, though the effect is somewhat marred by the large, visible gap on one side. When reconfigured into dock mode, the interior surfaces surrounding the speakers are decorated with black-on-silver techno-patterns as well as three "Optimus Prime" logos. The recessed space also features a stylised, almost Frank Milleresque, high-contrast portrait of Prime's face, although this is largely covered when an iPod is inserted. The figure comes in identical packaging to the original Music Label Convoy, save for the addition of a sticker illustrating the different color of its contents.



 The right of all sentient beings is... um... what am I promoting now? Wait, a Japanese pop band? Are you kidding me? I need a new agent.
EXILE x TRANSFORMERS —speakers for iPod— (2008)
Accessories: Trailer/iPod dock, 2 fists (left and right), ion blaster


Exclusive to LDH Shop, this redeco of the Music Label Convoy toy is utterly ridiculous and was created as a promotion for the Japanese pop band EXILE. While Convoy himself has EXILE written on his right forearm, his trailer sports the "Love Dream Happiness" tagline of LDH Inc.[1], as well as the "EXILE Perfect Year 2008" logo of the "EXILE Perfect Year 2008 Ultimate Best Box" boxset, which was released some months after he was.


 Transformers (2007)
 The more things change, the more they, uh, get bigger guns.
Leader for the Ages (Wal*Mart exclusive two-pack, 2007)
Accessories: Laser rifle


 This Wal*Mart-exclusive two-pack pairs the deluxe-size Classics Optimus Prime figure with live-action movie line's Fast Action Battlers Power Hook Optimus Prime toy. Both toys are identical to their original releases, and together represent the Optimus Primes of the oldest and newest generations (at the time) of Transformers, respectively. The movie Prime is designated "2007 Optimus Prime", while the Classics figure is dubbed "1984 Optimus Prime" (referring not, of course, to the toy, which was produced in 2006, but to the character).


 Diablock
Diablock Convoy (2007)
ID number: 01 (Mecha Builder Vol.03) We have the technology. We can rebuild him. Except, uh.. for his face.
Accessories: Ion blaster


Rounding out a bumper year of Japanese-exclusive Generation 1 Optimus Primes, the Takara-licensed Kawada brand Diablock Convoy is a fully transformable Lego-style block building figure similar in premise to the earlier American Built to Rule! sets. The Diablock figure, however, easily outstrips the Built to Rule! sets by both being an accurate representation of the toy on which it is based, and being able to transform between modes without having to be partially disassembled and put back together first. 

Forming a roughly 11-inch figure when fully assembled, Diablock Convoy is highly articulated, save for his head, which is only able to move up and down. Said head is also by far the most stylised aspect of the figure, with no real attempt to approximate Prime's face or mouthplate, instead featuring only a reversed block that gives the odd impression of a cycloptic eye. It is possibly intended to actually represent his forehead grill, as a yellow block inside his head construction remains barely-visible through a slit in his face, possibly intended to represent the classic toy's yellow eyes.

The figure's transformation scheme is based on the original G1 figure, the only differences being that the fists are not removed but become the headlights, and instead of flipping backwards inside the chest, Diablock Convoy's noggin flips forwards with the aid of opening chest windows. A "laser rifle" in the shape of his ion cannon can be built from black bricks, and stickers bearing the Autobot faction symbol can be placed on his shoulders, although this is not recommended as it is designed to permanently stick to multiple tiles which dislodge easily and may damage the sticker.


 Henkei! Henkei!
 
Convoy (March 13, 2008)
ID number: C-01
Accessories: Smokestacks/Prime Gun, wind vane/ion blaster


Henkei! Henkei! Transformers Convoy is a redeco of Classics Voyager Class Optimus Prime. He features a significantly altered colour scheme, generally to make the toy more closely resemble his appearance in the Generation 1 cartoon and the original toyline. His truck mode features less silver paint striping, but compensates with a vacuum-metalized grill/fender area. In robot mode all of his previously grey plastic is replaced with red plastic, with a majority of it being painted silver, chromed, or painted gunmetal gray. He features a different shade of red, blue, and clear blue plastic than the Classics version. Since Henkei! toys do not feature a heat-sensitive rubsign, Henkei Convoy has two Autobot sigils tampographed onto his shoulders.



 
Convoy Clear Version (June 19, 2008)
Accessories: Smokestacks/Prime Gun, wind vane/ion blaster


This redeco of Henkei Convoy is cast almost entirely in translucent colored plastic. Also known by the nickname "Crystal Convoy" among fans, it was first released as an exclusive for the Japanese convention Tokyo Toy Fair 2008, limited to 1000 pieces at the event, but was later made available through e-HOBBY. It was sold in a monochrome-blue version of Henkei Convoy's regular packaging.

More information on Convoy Clear Version at TFkenkon.com





Convoy (2008)
Accessories: Smokestacks/Prime Gun, wind vane/ion blaster


Chromed entirely in gold like many other Lucky Draw figures before it, this version of Prime was available only through a TV Magazine mail-in promotion held in December 2008, and was limited to only five units, making it one of the rarest officially available Transformers toys in the world.

Unfortunately, this toy has become the target of several knockoffs aimed at gullible collectors. Most of the fake ones can be told apart from the real deal by various details not matching up. The real one is cast in gold plastic, painted over in gold chrome and sports small red Autobot logos on both shoulders.

Gallery of (hopefully) a genuine Gold Convoy at TFormers.com





Convoy (2008)
Accessories: Smokestacks/Prime Gun, wind vane/ion blaster


A (technically) unreleased "black" redeco of Henkei Voyager-sized Convoy using the same plastic layout and paint mask but replacing red and blue with black, silver with gray, leaving the previously vacuum-metalized grill/fender area unpainted, changing the blue tint for the windows to red and changing all silver and yellow paint operations to blue. The red Autobot insignias would have remained unchanged.[8]

The figure would have come in a monochrome version of the standard Henkei! Henkei! Convoy's packaging, still named "Convoy" but now labeled as part of the Gentei! Gentei range of exclusives.[9] Reportedly, this figure was intended as a Wonderfest exclusive, but was canceled because, according too TakaraTomy designer Shogo Hasui, it was too similar to Universe Nemesis Prime. Knockoffs were later made available, so buyers beware!

A minor redeco (replacing the Autobot insignias with Decepticon insignias, adding silver paint to the grill/fender area and changing the blue paint operations to teal) was eventually released as a Tokyo Toy Show 2012 exclusive, now marketed as part of the United line.





Proceed on your way to oblivion.This item has been canceled, with no current plans for release.





 Universe (2008)
 And the block has returned!!!
Optimus Prime (2008)
Series: G1
Accessories: Laser Blaster, 2 fists (left & right), trailer/Combat Deck, Roller, 4 rockets, hose, nozzle, fuel pump, sound effects module, comic, DVD


Sold at the rather exorbitant price of $75, this re-release of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy is actually one of the most visually different from the other "straight" reissues of the mold, despite Hasbro's assurance that this is the toy you had as a kid. Positively anemic in comparison with the original toy, this Prime's red parts are visibly paler than usual, while his blue parts are much lighter (although the version released at Canadian retail reportedly sports a deeper shade of red again). This shade of blue extends to both Roller (a lighter blue than his traditional dark shade, yet darker than the lightest the figure has been in its history) and the internal workings of his Combat Deck, which is itself a much flatter shade of light grey, compared to its normal dark, swirled metallic silver color. In addition, the toy features the now-customary shortened smokestacks, and the elongated missiles seen on the Commemorative Series release, while the Autobot insignias on his shoulders are no longer stickers, but rather tampographs, like on Takara's Encore release. While all reissues of the Prime mold since 2003 have used the original thick-barreled mold for his ion blaster, this version includes the slender sculpt instead.

As a 25th anniversary set, Prime includes several new pack-in bonuses: a reprint of the first issue of the original Marvel comic book, a DVD containing all three parts of the animated series pilot "More than Meets the Eye", and three desktop wallpapers, and a battery-powered Autobot symbol that plays transforming sound effects, part of the first version of the Transformers theme song, and three voice clips performed by Peter Cullen: "I am Optimus Prime!", "Autobot, transform and roll out!" and "Megatron must be stopped, no matter the cost." There are some reports that the Autobot symbol could be worn out or damaged during the time of purchase.

Outside the United States, this set was available in a thinner rectangular box. It contained all the original accessories from the American release, but not the DVD. An English-only version of this packaging format was available in Asia and Australia (initially only available at Myer stores, but later also at Toys"R"Us, Kmart and Target, eventually at drastically reduced prices), while a bilingual English/French packaging variant was available in Canada, still including—though not advertised on the packaging—the (English only) comic book.

More information on 25th Anniversary Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Deluxe Class


 
Optimus Prime (Deluxe Class: Special Edition, 2008)
ID Number: SE-01
Accessories: Laser rifle


"Special Edition" Optimus Prime is a redeco of the Classics multi-pack toy, featuring some minor paint detail changes, bluer translucent plastic, darker and cooler gray plastic, and darker metallic flake red and blue plastic, with his (previously black-only) rifle body most notably now being cast in both blue and black plastic. He came in special "book box" style packaging with black-and-white boxart, and was only available at retail in Australian and Asian markets. North American customers could later buy him via Hasbro Toy Shop.

More information on Special Edition Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Titanium Series
 Yawn... Hey, wait! Am I Delta Magnus now?
Optimus Prime (6" Cybertron Heroes, 2009)
Accessories: Ion blaster, display stand


 A Target-exclusive redeco of War Within Optimus Prime in live-action film-inspired colors. The bio on the back of the packaging only fills up half of the allotted space, as if the writer was tired of describing Optimus Primes.

More information on Target-exclusive Titanium Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Alternity
 It's like G2 Go-bots all over again...but cooler!
Convoy [Ultimate Metal Silver] (February 26, 2009)
ID number: A-01
 Known designers: Hironori Kobayashi (TakaraTomy)


Alternity Convoy transforms into a 1:32 scale Nissan GT-R, featuring die-cast metal parts, an opening hood, trunk and doors, as well as an interior, complete with his feet and thighs being sculpted to form the back seats. This complex figure stands at 6.5" tall, and is armed with a pair of blasters on each arm. In the hyper-dimensional world of the oft-confusing Alternity fiction, this figure specifically represents the Optimus Prime of universal stream Primax 903.0 Beta.

The mold suffers from a minor design oversight, wherein the rear Nissan badge collides with his left leg strut when the left foot is hinged over and pegged into a clear plastic socket during transformation, with the results being that the connection is slightly crooked, isn't very secure, and sometimes pops off, and that the crooked pegging often causes the socket to crack.

Alternity Convoy was simultaneously available in both this silver coloration, and a deco based on his traditional appearance termed "Vibrant Red" (see below). The figure was later redecoed to create "Convoy [Super Black]" (representing not Optimus Prime, but Universe Nemesis Prime), Alternity Ultra Magnus, and Alternity Dai Atlas. It was retooled into Transformers GT GT-R Prime, GT-R Saber, GT-R Megatron and GT-R Maximus.



Alternity mold: Convoy



Alternity: A-01 Convoy [Ultimate Metal Silver]
A-01 Convoy [Vibrant Red]
A-01 Convoy [Super Black]
A-01U Ultla Magnus [Brilliant White Pearl]
A-01D Dai Atras [Aurora Flare Blue Pearl]

GT: GT-01 GT-R Prime
GT-02 GT-R Saber
GT-03 GT-R Megatron
GT-04 GT-R Maximus





Convoy [Vibrant Red] (February 26, 2009)
ID number: A-01


"Vibrant Red" Alternity Convoy is a redeco of the "Ultimate Metal Silver" figure in the much more traditional red and blue Prime color scheme, representing the Optimus Prime of universal stream Primax 109.0 Beta. The figure was available simultaneously with the Ultimate Metal Silver version, sharing the same packaging and pack-in materials, save for the color of the illustration on the front of the box, and a sticker that identified the figure within.



Alternity mold: Convoy



Alternity: A-01 Convoy [Ultimate Metal Silver]
A-01 Convoy [Vibrant Red]
A-01 Convoy [Super Black]
A-01U Ultla Magnus [Brilliant White Pearl]
A-01D Dai Atras [Aurora Flare Blue Pearl]

GT: GT-01 GT-R Prime
GT-02 GT-R Saber
GT-03 GT-R Megatron
GT-04 GT-R Maximus



 Transformers (2010)
 Legends Class


 YOU'LL NEVER GUESS HIS TRUE ALLEGIANCE!
Optimus Prime (Legends Class, 2011)
 Known designers: Joe Kyde (Hasbro)


Legends Class Optimus Prime is based on his original Generation 1 appearance. He features a fake grill for his robot mode, and his large legs result in a fairly thick and compact truck bed. He is part of "Reveal the Shield", a subline that outfits all its toys with rubsigns, and in this case, it's located on the left side of the truck/his left elbow.

This figure was redecoed and retooled into Generations Motorbreath and Transformers (2014) Ultra Magnus.

More information on "Reveal the Shield" Legends Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime




 
Optimus Prime (Legends Class, 2012)

Accessories: Sword (running change variant only)

The 2010 Transformers "Reveal the Shield" Legends Class Optimus Prime sculpt in the deco from the first Chronicle EZ Collection wave (see below) was released as a "Dollar Store" exclusive (available at stores such as Dollar General and Big Lots) in generic 2010 Transformers packaging packaging alongside Starscream, Bumblebee and Megatron. The initial release saw the copyright year removed, while a later running change variant featured the new tooling originally used for Generations Legends Class Motorbreath, with not only the retooled hands and a hole on the back of his head/top of his vehicle mode compatible with 3mm posts, but also Motorbreath's sword accessory.

If one chooses, the Ion Blaster from the Kingdom Core Class figure can be used on this toy.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Deluxe Class


 
Sons of Cybertron (2010)
Accessories: Machine gun turret/rifle


Released as part of TakaraTomy's Welcome to Transformers 2010 campaign, the "Sons of Cybertron" set includes a redeco of the 2006 Classics "Ultimate Battle" pack Deluxe class Optimus Prime, cast mostly in translucent plastic (his shoulders remain opaque Polyoxymethylene (POM)). He comes packaged with a similarly translucent redeco of Classics Rodimus.

The set is a counterpart to TakaraTomy's simultaneously-available Transformers Animated Sons of Cybertron set, which also features translucent versions of that line's Deluxe Optimus Prime and Rodimus figures. It was intended as an exclusive for the Japanese Chara Hobby 2010 festival, but was also initially offered as a raffle prize at the 2010 "Autobot Alliance" event in the Philippines.,[10] and was later available for purchase at Cybertron Con 2010 in Shanghai.



 We see a red truck, and we want it painted black.
Optimus Prime (Deluxe Class, 2011)
Accessories: Sword
 Known designers: Hisao Nishimoto (TakaraTomy)


 Part of the sixth wave of the 2010 Transformers toyline, this Optimus Prime is a Deluxe Class mold based on the original Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime toy (see above). Transforming into an International 8200 truck, he has some influences from the live-action movie Optimus Prime, including the more defined flames on his hood, athletic robot mode proportions and a more aggressive-looking translucent orange sword that can be held with both hands for maximum extreme chopitude. Optimus Prime features extensive use of translucent plastic in his arms, head and upper torso for a light-piping effect. Optimus also has a (non-detachable) matrix gimmick in robot mode that is formed by a relief pattern on the inside of the cab's side windows and is visible through the windshield/chest in robot mode. Like the Legends toy, he's part of Reveal the Shield and features a rubsign, this time on the roof. He is also very articulated and poseable, even featuring ankles and wrists that are both ball-jointed and hinged.

 The original Hasbro stock photos depict him as having red paint operations on his kneecaps and the sunken ridges around his blue abs that the final product lacks. The photos on the cardback show him with a red Autobot symbol on his truck door and blue plastic instead of grey for the piece just in front of his rear tires. The back photo also depicts his side windows as being the same translucent orange as the front ones, when they are, in reality, a garish solid orange.

 Multiple reports suggest that the toy suffers from a design flaw, inferior plastic quality, or both: Due to his hands having peg-holes that are a bit too small to accommodate 5 mm posts, they have a tendency to show stress marks on the inside after pegging his sword handle (or most other pegs) inside. Stress marks also tend to appear near his tiny hinged wrists. Fortunately, there have been no reports of the hands actually breaking on either location thus far.

 This toy was redecoed into Timelines/Shattered Glass Optimus Prime and Timelines Scourge, and was retooled into Timelines/Shattered Glass Ultra Magnus. 

More information on "Reveal the Shield" Deluxe Optimus Prime at TFU.info





Transformers (2010) mold: Optimus Prime (Deluxe Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Generations Combat Hero Optimus Prime

Fun Publications:

Timelines Optimus Prime (Shattered Glass)
Ultra Magnus (Shattered Glass)
Scourge (Robots in Disguise)

TakaraTomy:

United UN-22 Laser Optimus Prime

Legends LG-EX Black Convoy



 Masterpiece


 Standing tall and proud with his smokestacks erect.
Masterpiece Optimus Prime (2012/2014)
Accessories: Ion cannon, Matrix of Leadership, Energon axe, trailer/Battle Station/Maintenance Dock, Autobot Roller, Spike Witwicky figurine
 Known designers: Andrew Franks (deco artist)


The Hasbro Toys"R"Us-exclusive release of MP-10 Convoy features brighter blue plastic and paint, brighter unpainted non-metallic red plastic, painted yellow lights above the front truck windshields, painted light blue eyes, and lacks silver paint for the trailer's interior. Roller is now blue.

In the Philippines, this was only available as a Toys"R"Us "Limited Edition" figure in the Trinoma mall from August 23–26, with customers having to sign up to reserve their figure. It was limited to 48 units total, and was limited to one per customer.

Hasbro Asia re-released this in 2014. It came with an exclusive addition—the Key to Vector Sigma. In 2017 it was basically reissued under Generations co-branding.

Stock photos show his vehicle mode mistranformed.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-10)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-10 Convoy
MP-10A Convoy (BAPE ver.)
MP-10 Convoy Mode "Eva"
MP-10R Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.)
MP-10K Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.)
MP-711 Convoy (7‑Eleven ver.)
MP-10ASL Convoy (atmos safari LEBRON Ver.)
MP-10DC Convoy (atmos safari duckcamo Ver.)
MP-10ASE Convoy (atmos safari ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.)
MP-10ASV Convoy (atmos safari VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.)
MP-10B Black Convoy

Golden Lagoon Convoy

Hasbro:

Transformers (2010) Masterpiece Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Year of the Horse Optimus Prime

Shattered Glass Shattered Glass Optimus Prime

Masterpiece MP-10 Optimus Prime

Collaborative MP-10G Optimus Prime Ecto-35 Edition




Shogo HasuiSee also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy



 United
 See?! War for Cybertron is G1!
Optimus Prime Cybertron Mode (December 25, 2010)
ID number: UN-01
Accessories: "Assault rifle"


 The first toy in TakaraTomy's United toyline is a redeco of the War for Cybertron Deluxe Class Optimus Prime, transforming into a Cybertronic "armored truck". As has been TakaraTomy's won't of late, he now sports a metallic red paint job, with brighter pink paint applications and cooler grey parts, and features several additional paint details to those present on the Hasbro figure in the form of black chest windows and pink lines on his face mask. His rifle transforms as well, folding and plugging into the roof of the vehicle mode. The rifle can also peg into his forearms, and, in its compact configuration, can attach to his shoulders via peg holes on the backs of his front tires or stored behind his back in robot mode.

 This mold was also used to make United Darkside Optimus Prime.



 No, my legs won't retract. Now buy me.
Optimus Prime (December 25, 2010)
ID number: UN-06
Accessories: Laser rifle 


The second Optimus Prime toy in TakaraTomy's United toyline is another redeco of the Classics multi-pack Deluxe-sized toy (the first release in Japan), this time featuring an extensive metallic red paint job on the majority of the red plastic, and he features metallic sheen on the unpaintable red plastic and his blue plastic is now brighter. While the paint masks are identical to the Special Edition release, United Optimus Prime features additional paint operations on the hip, the stomach grille, the fold-up waist panels, the lower chest piece (at least in the front), and the forehead.

Although the stock photo (pictured from the right) shows both of his biceps painted silver with his Autobot insignia tampographed on the left shoulder, the final product omits the paint operation (due to being molded with unpaintable plastic) and the insignia is placed on his left forearm, just like his Classics figure.



 
Laser Optimus Prime (March 26, 2011)
ID number: UN-22
Accessories: "Laser Rod" sword


The third United Optimus Prime toy is a redeco and slight retool of the Deluxe Class figure from Hasbro's 2010 Transformers toyline, itself an homage to Prime's Generation 2 "Laser" form. The toy features translucent blue plastic as opposed to Hasbro's orange, red paint is used on the biceps instead of blue paint, extra red paint applications on the knees like the original's sticker detail, and more broken-up red apps on the shoulders. Silver detailing was added to the cab mode on the grill, the bumper, and near the doors. The blue plastic in cab mode is now black plastic to make the figure more accurate to the Generation 2 original. The gray plastic is changed from the Hasbro version to more closely match the 2006 reissue of Laser Optimus Prime. Black paint was applied to the cab mode to mimic the fade from red to black on the original Laser Optimus, but still includes a flame deco like the Hasbro version, only in a different design. It lacks the roof-mounted rubsign of the Hasbro version, instead including Autobot insignias on the cab doors. (Disappointingly, they are Generation 1 insignias, rather than Generation 2 ones!) Additionally, a retool was made to the peg on the inside of his right shoulder, to make it shorter and wider than the Hasbro version, allowing it to move freely without hitting the torso, unlike the Hasbro release. 



Transformers (2010) mold: Optimus Prime (Deluxe Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Generations Combat Hero Optimus Prime

Fun Publications:

Timelines Optimus Prime (Shattered Glass)
Ultra Magnus (Shattered Glass)
Scourge (Robots in Disguise)

TakaraTomy:

United UN-22 Laser Optimus Prime

Legends LG-EX Black Convoy




 Shouldn't be hard for him to fit in with the Decepticons... There's like, two other "evil Optimus Prime" guys in their ranks.
Black Optimus Prime (June 16, 2012)
Accessories: Smokestacks/blaster, wind vane/cannon


Available exclusively at the Tokyo Toy Show 2012 (along with Prime Shining Optimus Prime), Black Optimus Prime is a very minor redeco of the previously unreleased Gentei! Gentei! black version of Henkei! Henkei! Convoy, itself a redeco of the Classics Voyager Class toy. As such, Black Optimus Prime is mostly cast in black plastic, with some gray parts, translucent red windows and teal paint operations.

The only differences with the unreleased version, aside from the packaging, are that silver paint has been added to the previously unpainted grill/fender area, the blue paint operations have been changed to teal, and the red Autobot insignias have been replaced by purple Decepticon ones. Prime's bio apparently explains that he took on this new color scheme in order to infiltrate the Decepticon ranks, in response to recent attacks by some new Decepticon forces pretending to be Autobots.

Black Optimus Prime at Alfes's Toy Blog (part 1)
Black Optimus Prime at Alfes's Toy Blog (part 2)





Classics mold: Optimus Prime



Hasbro:

Classics Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

Universe Nemesis Prime

Age of Extinction Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Optimus Prime

Fun Publications:

Timelines Optimus Prime
Knight Ginrai

TakaraTomy:

Henkei! Henkei! C-01 Convoy
Convoy Clear Version
Convoy (campaign prize)

United Ultra Magnus
Black Optimus Prime

e-HOBBY:

Cloud TFC-A01 Optimus Prime

Legends LG-EX Magna Convoy



 Chronicle


 
G1 & Movie Sōshireikan Set (multi-pack, 2011)
ID number: CH01
Accessories: Laser rifle, trailer


This reissue of the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure comes in a two-pack with the Deluxe-Class Dark of the Moon Optimus Prime figure. Prime himself is almost identical to the Encore release, save for his trailer hitch which was retooled to allow a peg to be inserted within it while still being able to be inserted into the trailer itself (making it compatible with his G1 trailer and the new trailer included). Like the Encore release, he features lighter colors and tampographed shoulder symbols (which vary slightly from the Encore release). 

His original trailer is not included with the set; instead, he comes with a new deluxe-scaled trailer, not available with any other figure, based on the one towed by Prime in Dark of the Moon. The trailer is compatible with both figures, and sports 5mm post-holes that will hold (among many other things) G1 Prime's laser rifle and the MechTech weapon Movie Prime is armed with. 

Oddly, for their official promotional photography, Takara took an existing photo of Optimus Prime's robot mode that was at least a decade old, having previously been used as a very early (and inaccurate) illustration for Hasbro's then upcoming Commemorative Series reissue of the figure.


 EZ Collection
 
Convoy (EZ Collection, 2011)

A veeery slight repaint of the 2010 Reveal the Shield Legends figure, the first Chronicle Prime replaces that figure's rubsign with a tiny tampographed Autobot symbol on his left bicep. He was one of eight figures available in the first wave of "EZ Collection" blindpacked figures.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime




 
Convoy (EZ Collection, 2011)

The Reveal the Shield Legends Prime mold was redecoed again for the inclusion in the second EZ Collection wave. This version of the figure replaces his blue on the head with black, and the blue paint on the legs is stripped off, revealing the black plastic underneath. and like the Megatron redeco in the same wave, features a Generation 2 Autobot symbol instead of a Generation 1 insignia.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Kre-O
This section only lists Generation 1-inspired Optimus Prime Kre-O toys.


 If you even thought about Transformers in 2011, you probably have two of me.
Matrix Optimus Prime (2011)
Pieces: 10
Accessories: Optimus rifle


 Intended to be exclusive to BotCon 2011, this redeco of the regular Optimus Prime Kreon has an open chest showing the Matrix of Leadership within. He comes with a G1 inspired gun and a black brick display stand.

 We say "intended", because in actuality, the thing appears to have been produced in such huge quantities that it's wound up being made available in loads of other places—it was handed out at San Diego Comic-Con 2011, offered as a free giveaway with any order that included Transformers toys on Hasbro Toy Shop), as a free gift on the cover of the Awesome Autobots Activity Book, and came as a free gift attached to, of all things, issue #240 of the UK children's comic, Doctor Who Adventures (but not the UK's Transformers comic, you'll note!).

A supposed factory error even caused this version (minus display stand) to be included in the larger Optimus Prime kit (see below). This problem has (presumably) been fixed, but it was awesome while it lasted.

More information on Matrix Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 Nigh-infinite configuration possibilities, and somehow a WORSE base mode than pretty much every other Optimus's trailer-bases. Wow.
Optimus Prime (2011) 
Set number: 30689
Pieces: 542
Kreons: Optimus Prime, Bluestreak, Skywarp, two Stunt Drivers
Accessories: Optimus rifle, weapons sprue (sniper rifle, pistol, submachinegun, handcuffs, radio, ammo box), large tool sprue (shovel, hammer, electric drill, clamp), small tool sprue (socket wrench, screwdriver, wrench, hatchet), 2 traffic cones


 Naturally, Optimus Prime got the biggest of the sets in the first year of Kre-O. The set can be built into a large long-nose tractor-trailer rig with a removable "sleeper" cab that hides a computer station, and a trailer that can carry the set's two motorcycles or open up to carry larger car builds. The robot mode build includes a huge Optimus, based largely on the live-action movie Optimus, though with a head based almost directly on the Classics Voyager Optimus. He is armed with a distressingly plain brick that fires pressure-launched missiles (aka his smokestacks). Most of the leftover parts in robot mode become a "headquarters" which is mostly just a random assemblage of mismatched-color panels and a pair of barricades. Both main builds leave numerous parts unused if you go expressly by the instructions, but hey, it's a building kit, surely you can find someplace to apply most of them.

 The set comes with a bevy of Kreons, including Optimus Prime (this one based heavily on Generation 1 Optimus), Bluestreak, Skywarp, and a pair of human Stunt Drivers. A packaging error resulted in some releases of this set to come with the promotional "Matrix chest" Optimus (see above) rather than the normal version pictured here.

Speaking of errors, the instruction manuals (he has two) both have errors in their parts listings, showing numerous pieces in the wrong colors or not making it clear that some parts are, well, clear. Making things more confusing, not all of these miscolors are reflected in the step-by-step instructions, while a couple new ones are added there.

More information on Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 Kneedom is the right of all sentient beings.
 Optimus Prime (2011)
Set number: 31143
Pieces: 90


 The smaller of the two Optimus Prime kits in year one, this version is based more on the original Optimus Prime. The small cabover-style tractor-trailer truck build is solid, unable to seat any Kreons inside. The robot mode is heavily restricted in its articulation, with no knees, and only single-direction-swivel elbows and shoulders.

This is one of the few Kre-O Transformers sets to not come with any Kreons whatsoever, the other being the similarly-sized Bumblebee kit.

More information on "small" Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Optimus Prime (Custom Kreon, 2013)
Set number: A6085
Pieces: 41
Accessories: Rack, large rifle, ray pistol, robot sword, wing-backpack, rocket-backpack


 Part of the first assortment of "Custom Kreons", this version of Optimus Prime comes with a buildable parts rack on which to hang/store his many many extra pieces. His tampographs are much more heavily-detailed than the original Kreons, based on the original Optimus Prime toy. His "normal" helmet (and small sword) are chromed, plus he comes with an extra clear-plastic helmet, torso and legs. He also has a pair of extra arms (originally from the Kre-O Battleship aliens), plus a buildable large rifle, a buildable wing-pack, and a ray pistol (originally an Andorian blaster from Kre-O Star Trek).



 
Orion Pax (2014)
Pieces: 10
Accessories: Optimus rifle, transparent block, brick display stand


Available only with the Transformers: Kre-O Character Encyclopedia, Orion Pax is a Kreon version of Orion Pax from "War Dawn". He uses the Ironhide helmet and the original Optimus Prime Kreon's gun. The transparent block which he can hold has "KREO" written on it in Autobot text.

More information on Orion Pax at TFU.info





 Give me your face?
Elite Optimus Prime (2014)
Pieces: 43
Acessories: Optimus rifle


A polybag with buildable Optimus Prime with larger hands and legs on a Kreon sized torso, much like the Galvatron in the Factory Battle set. His helmet is completely unpainted.

This figure was a freebie given away at Canadian Toys"R"Us stores during a build-a-figure event, and also available at the "Transformers Exhibition" event in Taipei, Taiwan from June 27 to July 6.



 Voted Most Likely to GIVE ME YOUR FACE Succeed
Kreon Class of 1984 (Kreon figure set, 2014)
Set number: B0090
Voted: Most Likely To Succeed
Accessories: Optimus rifle


 This version of Optimus, part of the the Kreon Class of 1984, lays heavy on the toy-based tampographs (though they are completely different from the other iterations), and like the others in the set, has a more animation-model-inspired face deco, what with having a nose and all.

He was only available in a pack of 30 Kreons dubbed "Class of 1984". This set was made for sale at San Diego Comic-Con 2014. Remaining stock was to be sold at Hasbro Toy Shop online after the convention, but as the set sold out at the show, that never happened.

More information on Class of 1984 Optimue Prime at TFU.info





Total Commander Optimus Prime (Convoy) (Gacha capsule Kreon, 2014)
Accessories: Ray pistol


In late 2014, twelve Kreons were sold through TakaraTomy's "TakaraTomy A.R.T.S" Gacha capsule-toy machines in Japan. Thankfully for the rest of the world, these Kreons are all basically identical to previously-released ones in the Hasbro lines. The Gacha release of Optimus Prime is basically the base Custom Kreon Optimus using his clear-plastic helmet and carrying the small ray pistol, lacking his leg-wheels, smokestacks and backpack (and of course all those other parts and accessories).



 
Brick Box (2016)
Set Number: B2963
Pieces: 82
Accessories: Optimus Rifle


 Released in the third wave of "Brick Box" sets, and found only at Dollar General stores, this version of Optimus Prime uses the new 2015 style of Kreon hips and torso, with a hollow hip-peg and a central post inside the torso for increased grip... which also makes the torso incompatible with about four years' worth of Kreons. Nice. His face and torso tampographs are new.

 The set comes with two bags of Kre-O parts, one coming from the first-year Sideswipe set (mostly all the small bits and the now-useless neck joint), the other "new" with some basic bricks and plates. The set has no instructions, as it's just a box of bricks to make whatever with.



 Battle Changers


 It remains to be seen if Optimus' pieces can be rebuilt into an alligator.
Optimus Prime (Battle Changers, 2015)
Set Number: B0715
Pieces: 89
Accessories: Optimus rifle


 Part of the first wave of "Battle Changers", this version of Optimus Prime is a severely built-up Kreon that transforms from truck into a robot and back without removing any parts! However, the sheer chunkiness of his limbs hanging off a Kreon torso make for awkward positioning and questionable balljoint grip strength.

 Like the rest of the Battle Changers, he was available in selected Asian countries in December 2014. These sets only appeared in the US through closeout chains like Ross and TJ Maxx in 2015.



 
Optimus Prime VS Megatron (Battle Changers 2-pack, 2015)
Set Number: B1506
Pieces: 198
Accessories: Optimus rifle, trailer


This version of Battle Changers Optimus was only available in a two pack set with Battle Changer Megatron. He is largely the same construction as as the single release, but has numerous small differences. He uses a new "double harness" piece on his torso instead of using two harnesses, leaving more space for his head to grip the neck-post, and his chest/windshield parts are each a single clipped "flag" part rather than the multi-part assembly of the single-pack. And of course there's the additional trailer, which doesn't have any official robot mode rebuild, and only loosely "connects" to the truck-mode Optimus by being lightly hooked to a single short bar on the back of Optimus's right leg.

This set, like the one above, was only available in the US through closeout chains like Ross and TJ Maxx in 2015.



 Mini-Con Combiners


Optimus Prime (Mini-Con Combiners, unreleased)
Accessories: Bazooka, phaser, Uzi, scoped pistol, Klingon blaster


"Mini-Con Combiner"' Optimus comes with one standard Kreon and four Cityville-syle mini-Kreons of the same character, each one a different incarnation from various franchises. With some extra parts, the mini-Kreons become limbs to make a larger combiner-bot.

 The main torso-bot is based on Generation 1 Optimus's original body. Two of his limbs are based on Armada Optimus Prime; one "normal" (Inferno helmet), one pre-Earth-body (Knock Out helmet). Another is based on live-action Optimus (Soundwave helmet), and the remaining one (Ironhide helmet)... actually looks to be based on the Optimus-like-but-not-Optimus Micromaster Overload! The heck?

First shown at New York Toy Fair 2015, the Mini-Con Combiners were apparently cancelled without fanfare... a decision that must have come late in the day, as they went on to star in their own promotional animation, "Stuck in a Tree", released about eight months after the trade show.





Proceed on your way to oblivion.This item has been canceled, with no current plans for release.





 EZ Collection Gum
 
Convoy (EZ Collection, July 30, 2012)
ID number: 1


EZ Collection Gum Convoy is another redeco of Generations Legends Class Motorbreath, featuring the retooled parts, but this time omitting the sword. He is decoed once again in his Generation 2 colors (see above), with the black legs, but uses metallic red plastic, and is coated in metallic red, blue (replacing his head's black), and black paint. As per the toyline's name, he comes with a yellow candy-shelled piece of lemony-flavored gum.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Generations
Main article: Optimus Prime (G1)/Generations toys

 Bot Shots
 Before time began, I was... a cube.
Optimus Prime (2012)
Series: 1
Number: B003
 Known designers: Hisao Nishimoto (TakaraTomy)


Fist strength: 410
Blaster strength: 850
Sword strength: 370


Part of the first wave of Bot Shots Series 1 single-packs, Optimus Prime is a teeny little long-nosed semi truck with "trailer", with a spring-loaded automatic transformation to robot mode triggered when his front bumper is pressed. He has a "spinner" in his chest that shows his three attack types and power levels. His truck mode and robot body are influenced by the live-action Optimus Prime, while his head is taken from the original. His blue paint is light and sparkly-metallic, his red paint is dull matte, and his optics are yellow.

This toy was given away free to attendees of Hasbro's "Collector-Fan Media Day" 2012, slightly altered by a "Toy Fair 2012" sticker applied to the cardback.

This mold was also redecoed to make Nemesis Prime. He shares parts with Super Bot Megatron and Motorbreath.

More information on Bot Shots Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Optimus Prime Launcher (Launcher, 2012)
Series: 1
Number: BL001
Fist strength: 920
Blaster strength: 450
Sword strength: 280



Part of the first wave of Bot Shots Series 1 launchers, this repaint of Optimus Prime comes with a large trailer that pops open to form a battle station with a spring-loaded launching platform. He appears to have the same plastic colors as the single release, and the same set of paint operations, but his paint is done in different shades, having glossy dark blue paint and glossy bright red paint. The black part of his launcher is sculpted to look vaguely like the repair done that is part of Generation 1 Optimus Prime's repair bay.

More information on Launcher Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Battle for the Matrix (Multi-pack, 2012)
Series: 1
Number: UB001
Fist strength: 835
Blaster strength: 505
Sword strength: 275



This minor redeco of the Optimus Prime Launcher features grey wheels, blue optics, and added red paint on its upper arms, while the launcher has grey plastic in place of black, smaller Autobot symbols on its sides, and gold paint on its interior instead of silver. The stock photography on the packaging depicts Optimus with a blue stripe on his built-in "trailer", which was omitted in the final product.

The set also comes with Megatron with his launcher, Decepticon Brawl, Bumblebee, and a cardboard token representing the Matrix.

More information on "Battle for the Matrix" Launcher Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Optimus Prime (2012)
Series: 1
Number: Super Bot 004
Fist strength: 330
Blaster strength: 315
Sword strength: 995



Part of the fourth wave of Bot Shots Series 1 single-packs, Super Bot Optimus Prime is a redeco of his toy in translucent blue plastic. As a Super Bot, he was packed one per case, and has higher, more lopsided stats than normal Bot Shots. He has a really, really good Sword stat.

More information on Super Bot Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Optimus Prime Launcher (Launcher, 2013)
Series: 2
Number: BL001
Accessories: Launcher, 4 Energon Cube targets
Fist strength: 820
Blaster strength: 405
Sword strength: 390



Part of the first wave of Bot Shots Series 2 launchers, this Optimus Prime transforms into a very boxy Generation 1-styled truck with trailer. As a Spin Shot, one manually winds up his upper body beforehand when transforming him into vehicle mode, where striking the front of the vehicle will cause him to burst open and spin while auto-transforming. He comes with a launcher used to propel him to great speeds, as well as four cube targets for him to knock over.

More information on Spin Shot Launcher Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Polar Assault Team (Multi-pack, 2013)
Series: 2
Number: T001
Fist strength: 370
Blaster strength: 945
Sword strength: 310



Part of the first wave of Bot Shots Series 2 five-packs, this redeco of the original Optimus Prime toy is cast in translucent blue plastic, with his cab painted white. Despite possessing translucent plastic and more lopsided stats than a regular Bot Shot, he is apparently not labeled as a Super Bot. This version of Optimus comes with similarly-themed with new redecos of Bumblebee, Mirage, Ironhide, and Jetfire.

More information on "Polar Assault Team" Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 
Dragon Track (Playset, 2013)
Series: 2
Number: UB001
Accessories: Launcher
Fist strength: 565
Blaster strength: 325
Sword strength: 725



Available only with the Bot Shots Dragon Track set, this version of Optimus Prime changes from a robot form resembling Generation 1 Optimus Prime, into a truck with a rocket exhaust molded into the back of its trailer. As a Flip Shot, he, er, flips up when auto-transforming. He comes with a launcher that can be connected to the track, as well as Flip Shot Megatron and his launcher.

More information on "Dragon Track" Flip Shot Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 BeCool
 
Trailer (Optimus Prime) (2012)
ID number: B03


BeCool "Trailer" is practically identical to the Bot Shots "Battle for the Matrix" Optimus Prime toy with the blue eyes and red arms, the only difference being that the game stats stickers in his chest spinner have been replaced with pictures of his vehicle mode, two people holding hands and the letters "Zzz..."

TakaraTomy's stock photography of Trailer, including the pictures used on the box, uses the original Bot Shots Optimus toy with the yellow eyes as a base.



 
Garbage Truck (Clean Optimus) (2013)
ID number: B12


"Garbage Truck" is a redeco of the same Optimus Prime toy in blue and white, a common coloration for Japanese garbage trucks, that ends up bearing a coincidental resemblance to the Bot Shots Polar Assault Team Optimus. His stickers now picture his truck mode being loaded with garbage, his truck mode driving around, and the word "cleaning" in both English and Japanese.

The B12 ID number was previously used for Special Sports Car, a limited toy which was only on shelves for three months before being replaced by Garbage Truck.




 I just passed a "jimmy" and a White, I've been passing everything in sight
Trailer and Trailer Base (Optimus Prime) (2013)
ID number: BS02


This Trailer is identical to the original BeCool Trailer other than the stickers, and now comes with the trailer/launcher accessory from Bot Shots redecoed in blue with red stripes. While the vehicle mode sticker in his chest remains, the hand-holding and sleeping ones have been replaced by pictures of the launcher: one in base mode and one in trailer mode. He also comes with a sticker sheet for decorating the Trailer Base.


 GT


 From Nissan to nii-san.
GT-R Prime (May 25, 2013)
ID number: GT-01
Accessories: "Impact Wrench Gun", Misaki race queen figure


Transformers GT "GT-R Prime" is a heavy retool of Alternity Convoy, transforming into a 1:32 replica of the Motul Autech GT-R race car used by the Nismo team in the Super GT racing championship series. He retains the flip-out blasters of the Alternity toy and can also wield his new Impact Wrench Gun accessory (also called the "Optimus Rifle" on the Transformers GT website), a weapon based on the impact wrenches used in car repairs. Like all GT toys, Prime also comes with a GT Sister, poseable human figures themed after race queens, his partner being a lady named Misaki.

GT-R Prime's packaging points out that he can be fitted into Masterpiece Optimus Prime's trailer to replicate the way actual race cars are transported.

This mold was also used, with different heads and accessories, to make the other Transformers GT toys: GT-R Saber, GT-R Megatron, and GT-R Maximus.



Alternity mold: Convoy



Alternity: A-01 Convoy [Ultimate Metal Silver]
A-01 Convoy [Vibrant Red]
A-01 Convoy [Super Black]
A-01U Ultla Magnus [Brilliant White Pearl]
A-01D Dai Atras [Aurora Flare Blue Pearl]

GT: GT-01 GT-R Prime
GT-02 GT-R Saber
GT-03 GT-R Megatron
GT-04 GT-R Maximus



 FJ Cruiser × Transformers
 
FJ Optimus Prime (2013)
Accessories: spare tire/axe


Part of a cross-promotion between Toyota and TakaraTomy, the deluxe-sized FJ Optimus Prime transforms into an FJ Cruiser, with his axe weapon becoming the vehicle's spare tire. The vehicle mode's body panels come packaged on the sprue, and can then be clipped onto the core figure. The mass retail release of FJ Optimus includes yellow and white panels, while the red variant was available when purchasing an FJ Cruiser at Japanese Toyota dealerships. As is typical of TakaraTomy exclusives, these variants came in grayscale packaging.

More information on FJ Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Construct-Bots
 
Optimus Prime (Elite Class, 2013)
 Known designers: Andrew Scribner (deco artist)


Optimus Prime transforms into a truck-like vehicle. This version is a retool to the Ultimate Class two-pack listed below, as his head design is slightly different. Additionally this version features transparent plastic for his body armor amongst other plastic changes. He includes a blue version of one of the Ultimate Class version's gun. 

As with all Construct-Bots, Optimus Prime's rubber ball joints on the shoulder and feet can harden over time, which makes it difficult to pose smoothly.



 


Optimus Prime vs Megatron (Ultimate Class, 2013)
 Known designers: Andrew Scribner (deco artist), Emiliano Santalucia (concept artist)


Optimus Prime transforms into a truck-like vehicle, packed alongside his eternal nemesis Megatron. This version has opaque colors and a more traditional Optimus color scheme. He includes a projectile weapon along with a variety of melee weapons, as well as a swathe of extra parts for additional configurations.

Optimus' sword was later redecoed/reused for Silverbolt and one of Timelines Oilmaster's weapons.


 Hero Mashers
 Modular building is the right of all sentient beings.
Optimus Prime (Battle Upgrade, 2014)
Pieces: 18
Accessories: Missile-launching rifle, missile, energy axe, cannon, left & right rocket pods, "Ultra Magnus" right forearm & fist


Part of the first wave of "Battle Upgrade" Hero Mashers toys, Optimus is a non-transforming action figure with ratchet-joints, about six inches tall. He has multiple peg-holes all over that can be used to mount any Hero Mashers accessory. As a first-wave figure, he has extra ankle articulation that is not present in later waves (a cut that was made to all Hero Mashers lines, not just the Transformers-branded ones).

He is designed with a removable head, forearms, thighs, and lower legs, all of which use the same clip-peg/hole joint. This means his pieces can be swapped around in any order, as well as swapped with any other Hero Mashers figure... which includes figures from Marvel Comics, Star Wars, and Jurassic World, meaning you can make some pretty freaky combinations.

While he is the same size as a standard Hero Masher, his larger price point is made up for with a lot more parts and gimmicks. Both of his hands are removable, which allows for accessories to be placed in his wrist sockets, notably his iconic "energy axe". His rifle is a spring-loaded missile launcher. He also comes with Ultra Magnus's right arm, which is a redeco of Hero Mashers Bulkhead's, only molded to remove that toy's missile-launching gimmick.

More information on Hero Mashers Optimus Prime at TFU.info





 "Mom said it's my turn on the Xbox."
Electronic Optimus Prime (Electronic Action, 2014)
Pieces: 22
Accessories: Missile launching cannon, missile, sword, shield, bladed shield, electronic left forearm, bladed left fist, torso armor, left & right winged "launchers", left & right armor boots


Part of the first (and only) wave of larger electronic Hero Mashers Transformers toys, the base Optimus Prime figure in this set is almost identical to the above "Battle Upgrade" toy; this version has a closed right fist that can hold accessories rather than the Battle Upgrade version's finger-pointy one.

However, this set comes with a completely different (and much larger) pile of accessories to turn Optimus (or any other Hero Mashers figure) into a hulking armored warrior. He comes with an extra left forearm with an electronic light, used to light up clear-plastic accessories when they're plugged into his wrist socket. Several of these accessories take inspiration from the live-action Optimus's gear, notably a very Age of Extinction-esque shield.

Oddly, the big stompy boots accessories are designed in a way that Optimus is really far back in them, leaving a huge gap between his shins and the boots' "knee" guards. Presumably this is to accommodate other Hero Mashers toys with much larger footprints.


 EZ Collection (2013)


 I'm the one you actually want. Except that you're gonna import it.
Optimus Prime (EZ Collection, April 27, 2013)
ID number: EG01


This EZ Collection Optimus Prime is yet another release of the Reveal the Shield redeco with the Motorbreath retooling, but this time he features light blue paint applications in place of the original dark blue. Like the rest of his brethren on the same line, Optimus features a movie version of the Autobot insignia.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Bearbrick
 Honey is the right of all sentient beings.
Optimus Prime (July 17, 2014)

A special edition Bearbrick released in celebration of the Transformers 30th anniversary, Optimus Prime transforms from a Bearbrick painted up like himself to a bear-eared robot. He has no accessories, but holes in his robot mode hands can accommodate other toys' weapons.

This mold, with a different head sculpt, was also used for the simultaneously released Bearbrick Megatron, and also redecoed into Nemesis Prime and Age of Extinction Optimus Prime. It was further retooled into Bearbrick Bumblebee and Starscream.


 Transformers (campaign item)
 
Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.] (EZ Collection, 2014)

A redeco of the Reveal the Shield Legends Class Optimus Prime toy with the Generations Motorbreath retooling (for accessories he does not come with), Convoy is cast in red and black clear plastic. He has been retooled to include a magnet in his right foot, allowing him to interact with Lost Age Battle Command Optimus Prime and Age of Extinction Stomp & Chomp Grimlock.

Convoy was available at a variety of 2014 events, including on May 3 at a "Kids Walk" event at Fuji Speedway, in special packaging on May 16 at the "Transformers Celebration 2014" midnight event at the Sunshine City Toys"R"Us store in Ikebukuro, on June 15 at Tokyo Toy Show 2014, at the Aeon Mall in Kasukabe on July 19, and at the "Transformers Expo" event in Yokohama on August 9; at the Expo's preview night, attendees could also acquire a sticker sheet designed to turn the toy into Nemesis Prime. Convoy was also available as one of three preorder bonuses for Cloud Roadbuster.

This toy was repurposed as Nemesis Prime/Yokohama Convoy.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Legend Commander Collection
 
Convoy (Jodai) (2014)
ID number: LC-01
Accessories: Ion Blaster, Energon Axe


Part of the Legend Commander Collection sold at Transformers Expo, "Convoy (Jodai)"—jodai (初代) meaning "first generation"—is a redeco of Robotmasters G1 Convoy. While most of the paint masks are identical to the original mold, other changes include replacing the translucent parts into clear blue plastic, and the panel-lining on the grill is stripped off. Unlike the first toy, he does not include a pair of swappable 3mm fists, his missile launcher, or his Calamity Defenser weapon.

Remaining stock was sold through TakaraTomy Mall.


 Optimus Prime Pen
 Hand cramps are the right of all sentient writers and artists.
Transformers Optimus Prime Pen (2014)
Accessories: Ion blaster


Released in Japan by Sentinel as part of the 30th anniversary, Optimus Prime Pen is a well-articulated robot that folds into the shape of a rather chunky, but functional ballpoint pen. The tip of the pen is formed from his ion blaster, with the barrel acting as a cap.

This mold was also used to make Black Convoy Pen and Ultra Magnus Pen.


 Transformers (2014)
 Black insignia version pictured.
Optimus Prime (Legion Class, 2014/2015/2017)
Accessories: Sword


Another release of the Reveal the Shield Legends Class sculpt, the deco for its initial release is almost identical to the Transformers release from 2012, having silver chest-windows instead of light-metallic-blue, plus a large "CE" mark and number on the backs of its legs, declaring the toy meets European product safety requirements. The tooling is identical to the 2012 release's running change variant, with the retooled hands and a hole on the back of his head/top compatible with Cyberverse 3mm pegs.

Bizarrely, the package art is lifted directly from the Generations Legends Class Optimus Prime/Autobot Roller two-pack's packaging, whereas the stock photos depicted on the back of the packaging are taken from Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime's packaging and only slightly altered, advertising a "Reveal the Shield" rubsign gimmick the toy doesn't actually have. Meanwhile, Hasbro's official stock photos provided to online retailers (including an in-packaging photo) depict the toy with the sword that came with the running change variant of the sculpt's 2012 release, even though the actual toy doesn't include the sword.

Legion Class Optimus Prime has been found at Family Dollar and Dollar General stores in the United States. A later variant repleaced the red Autobot insignia with a black version. This later version was also released at general retail in Australia, New Zealand, Europe, and Russia. In Singapore it was released together with Bumblebee and Starscream as part of the promotion for Age of Extinction in selected cinemas.
This figure was made available again, without any changes, in 2015, this time in new packaging resembling the then-concurrent packaging design for the Generations line, but replacing the name "Generations" with "Authentic Transformers". It was also given a new Hasbro product code number and UPC barcode, thereby technically making it a separate product. In 2017, it was re-released again, this time in a minor variant of the 2014 version's packaging (including the original product code number and barcode) that now lacked the reference to the non-existing "Reveal the Shield" gimmick.

Like Bumblebee and Starscream, the Black Insignia variant of the toy ended up being dumped to some hobby shop dealers in Asia., and even returned to discount stores like Five Below and 99 Cents Only in the US in 2020.



Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Nanoblock Motion Choro-Q
 Not Minecraft.
Convoy (December 11, 2014)

Produced as a collaboration between toylines Nanoblock and Choro-Q, this Optimus Prime is a building block toy providing pieces to build both Optimus Prime's super deformed robot mode and, separately, his truck mode (or something else, if you want). His truck mode is built on a generic Choro-Q chassis outfitted with an electric motor and can be remote-controlled using a smartphone app. While the chassis is physically generic, its firmware identifies it as belonging to the Convoy kit, and the smartphone app's controls adopt a blue and red theme to match, complete with Autobot logo on the steering wheel hub.


 Q-Transformers


 "Ohhh! Boo hoo! Let me play a sad song for you on the world's smallest Optimus Prime!"
Optimus Prime (January 24, 2015)
ID number: QT-09


Q-Transformers Optimus Prime is a tiny super deformed toy based on the Alternity Convoy design, transforming into a Nissan GT-R R35, though his legs retain the traditional blue truck bed motif. The English name on the packaging refers to him as just "Optimus". He comes with a code for unlocking "GTR Optimus Prime" as a playable character in the Q-Transformers: Mystery of Convoy Returns game. 

Optimus Prime was retooled into Q-Transformers Soundwave.




 
Convoy (April 25, 2015 / January 30, 2016)
ID numbers: QT-19, QTF-04


Q-Transformers Convoy is based on his traditional design, transforming into a flat-nose truck with an integrated, non-removable trailer. He comes with a code for unlocking Generation 1 Optimus Prime, under the name "Convoy", in Mystery of Convoy Returns. This toy was re-released with a new ID number as part of the second Q-Transformers series.

Convoy was redecoed into Q-Transformers Black Convoy and retooled into Ultra Magnus.




Optimus Prime (2015)
ID number: QT-M


QT-M Optimus Prime is a redeco of the GT-R Optimus Prime mold in the colors of the Transformers-sponsored Nissan GT-R used by the Team Mach racing team (a vehicle previously used as the base for the non-toy character Mach Five Racing Prime). Like Transformers GT's Safety Prime, this toy was a collaboration with the Super GT racing series and was given away free to young children who attended TakaraTomy-sponsored "Kids' Walk" events held by Super GT in the fall season of 2015.


 Optimus Prime featuring Original PlayStation
 U R NOT E
Optimus Prime featuring Original PlayStation (02/2015)
Accessories: Controller, memory card


Released alongside a Sega Mega Drive version of Megatron and outside of any other toyline, "Optimus Prime featuring Original PlayStation" transforms from robot to a scaled-down non-functional Sony PlayStation video game console. He features an opening disc compartment and comes with two accessories, a memory card and a controller that splits in two and attaches to his lower arms to act as blasters.


 Timelines
 
General Optimus Prime (BotCon 2015 two-pack)
Accessories: Launcher, missile, missile pod, pistol, rifle, cannon/rifle stock, cannon/rifle scope


Available in the Timelines "Generation 2" 2-pack alongside Sgt. Hound at BotCon 2015, General Optimus Prime is a redeco of Generations Voyager Class Roadbuster based on the cancelled Generation 2 General Optimus Prime toy. He transforms into an off-road vehicle and comes with numerous weapons, all of which peg via 5mm post onto his vehicle rear/legs, shoulders, upper & lower arms, and hands: a spring-loaded, missile-firing launcher, a pistol, a rifle, and two small cannons that respectively form the scope and stock of the rifle. All of his weapons can combine to form an unwieldy superweapon. The flaws from the original mold are likely to be retained from this release.

This mold also served as the basis of the non-toy Beast Wars: Uprising incarnations of Guiledart and Killer Punch.

More information on Timelines General Optimus Prime at TFU.info




 Unite Warriors
 
Convoy Grand Prime (giftset, February 27, 2016)
ID number: UW-05
Accessories: Weapons, 4 Gun/Fist/Foots


Takara's iteration of Combiner Wars Optimus Maximus is sold in a gift set including all five Autobots (minus the Rodimus mold). This version of Convoy has numerous changes in deco to better match his look in the Generation 1 cartoon. Like Unite Warriors Menasor, the set also features some minor improvements to the original sculpts, such as improved hip-ratchets for Convoy for increased stability. He also had the slightly modified pegs that Legends Class Rodimus (or Blackjack, Runabout, and Runamuck) can securely attach to, which was previously used for Battle Core Optimus Prime. The tampographed Autobot insignia on the roof/flip out head joint are now re-positioned to his side truck panels. 

Compared to the Combiner Wars release of the mold, Convoy features additional paint operations on the thighs, truck bumpers, the details on the inner legs, the gestalt chest halves (which are now painted over due to being molded in grey plastic), and the gestalt torso's lower section. The stomach's deco is also minimized, and the silver paint operations on the lower legs are now replaced with gunmetal while the mute metallic blue is now shiny metallic. When it comes to unpaintable plastic; his knee joints and feet are blue while the majority of the shoulder joints are now red. In addition, his gestalt skirt flap is now molded in the same grey color, and the the leg panels and thighs are now molded in black, with the latter being painted in silver with some yellow details. As the thighs are painted, care must be taken while transforming him in both modes, as they're somewhat prone to paint scraping. To minimize the damage, the two rear halves must be opened first to transform the legs. 



Combiner Wars mold: Optimus Prime



Version 1:

Hasbro: Combiner Wars Optimus Prime
Battle Core Optimus Prime

TakaraTomy: Unite Warriors UW-05 Convoy

e-HOBBY: Unite Warriors UW-EX Grand Scourge

Version 2:

Hasbro: Combiner Wars Motormaster
Motormaster (Generation 2)

Fun Publications: Combiner Wars Wrecker Toxitron

TakaraTomy: Unite Warriors UW-02 Motormaster



 Xiaomi / Transformers
 Transforms from robot to the Monolith from 2001 and back!
Optimus Prime Power Bank (2017)
Accessories Shield/Power Bank Shell, wings, sword, USB cord


Available as a HasCon 2017 exclusive, this Optimus Prime transforms from robot into a working power bank that supports 6500 mAh of battery power, thanks to a team-up between Hasbro and Chinese consumer electronics company Xiaomi. As a throwback to the Generation 2's Laser Rod gimmick, the USB cord can also plug on his sword to light-up.


 au x Transformers
 Cell service is the right of all sentient beings.
INFOBAR Optimus Prime (NISHIKIGOI) (2017)
Accessories: Mini flip-phone, display stand, swappable display cards
 Known designers: Yūya Ōnishi (TakaraTomy)


Released in conjunction with Japanese cellphone maker au,[11] au x Transformers INFOBAR Optimus Prime celebrates 15 years since the 2002 au Design Project that resulted in the INFOBAR cellphone, as well as the 10th anniversary of the live-action films. He transforms into a (non-functional) scaled-down replica of the 2002 au INFOBAR, and in lieu of cellphone functions, the figure can be paired via Bluetooth with a smartphone, such as an iPhone, to act as a notification alarm in either robot or INFOBAR mode. The screen is also non-functional, but pre-printed cards are included which can be slid into the screen to show an Autobot logo, Decepticon logo, a mockup of a cellphone home screen, or a technical "Transformers INFOBAR" design. He features articulated hands for grasping the included tiny flip-phone accessory (which can flip open) that is stored in the bottom of the cell phone mode. The figure also includes a display stand.

The project was crowd-funded through Japanese crowd-funding site Makuake.[12] For 5,400 yen, contributors received an INFOBAR Optimus Prime, or for 16,200 yen, received INFOBAR Optimus Prime, INFOBAR Megatron and INFOBAR Bumblebee, the only way to obtain the last two items. The project received one million yen in the first 24 hours, ultimately topping out at over 32 million yen.

This figure was redecoed into INFOBAR Optimus Prime (ANNIN) (below) and slightly retooled with new heads and redecoed into INFOBAR Megatron (BUILDING) and INFOBAR Bumblebee (ICHIMATSU).

More information on au x Transformers website (Japanese)
More information on INFOBAR Optimus Prime at Makuake crowd-funding site (Japanese)
Pictorial review of INFOBAR Optimus Prime at Chohenken (Japanese)






 White knight vs white noise.
INFOBAR Optimus Prime (ANNIN) (2017)
Accessories: Mini flip-phone, display stand, swappable display cards
 Known designers: Yūya Ōnishi (TakaraTomy)


INFOBAR Optimus Prime (ANNIN) is a redeco of INFOBAR Optimus Prime (NISHIKIGOI), transforming into a recreation of the ANNIN edition of the INFOBAR cellphone. All-white in cellphone mode, he sports additional blue and red detailing in robot mode. Surprisingly, this white repaint of Optimus is not based on Ultra Magnus, but rather his movie incarnation. Like the other figures in this line, he is not a working cellphone but can be paired via Bluetooth with a smartphone, such as an iPhone, to act as a notification alarm in either robot or INFOBAR mode. The screen is non-functional, but pre-printed cards are included which can be slid into the screen to show an Autobot logo, Decepticon logo, a mockup of a cellphone home screen, or a technical "Transformers INFOBAR" design. The figure also includes a display stand.

This figure was also retooled into INFOBAR Megatron (BUILDING) and INFOBAR Bumblebee (ICHIMATSU).

More information on INFOBAR Optimus Prime (ANNIN) (Japanese)




 Authentics
 You know it's bad when they have to tell you it's authentic.
Autobot Optimus Prime (Bravo, 2017)
 Known designers: Emiliano Santalucia (concept artist)


Released in the first wave of the Authentics toyline, "Autobot Optimus Prime" is roughly the size of a 2015 Robots in Disguise Battle Pack toy. He changes from an evergreen-inspired robot into a more G1-based truck in just four steps. His instructions are incorrect; for truck mode, his legs must be folded in before the arms, otherwise the locking tabs on the arms will get in the way. Due to his transformation, he ends up with no elbows and a fake chest. He also has problems standing up due to hollow legs.




 In case you wanted a bigger turd.
Autobot Optimus Prime (Alpha, 2017)

Standing at the height of a Voyager figure, "Autobot Optimus Prime" is nearly identical to his smaller counterpart. He retains the four-step transformation while gaining the (sideways) elbows that the little guy lacks. Like his wavemate Grimlock, Optimus comes with kibble detached in-package.




 
Optimus Prime (Titan Changer, 2019)

This Optimus Prime scales with the rest of the Titan Hero/Guardian/Changer figures, utilizing a different transformation scheme compared to his previous Authentics figures. Due to the said transformation scheme, and unusual for an Optimus Prime toy; his shoulders end up sticking out from the cab's rear.


 Street Fighter II × Transformers
 The pipes are broken!
Convoy [Ryu] vs Megatron [Vega] (Two-pack, 2018)
Release date: May 26 2018
Accessories: sword, double-barreled rifle, Headmaster


Available as part of the exclusive Street Fighter II × Transformers toyline, "Convoy" is a redeco of Titans Return Voyager Class Optimus Prime in Ryu's traditional colors, fleshtones and all. His vehicle modes are both adorned with the "fūrinkazan" kanji from Ryu's belt: 風林火山 ("as fast as the wind, as quiet as the forest, as daring as fire, and immovable as the mountain"). He transforms from robot to tanker truck to plane and back. Both vehicle modes have "cockpit" areas to seat any Titan Master (or compatible) figure. Like all Titans Return Voyager class figures, he has built in mechanisms to "bulk up" his noggin. In his case these are spring-loaded pylons. The smaller Headmaster's robot mode is also painted to resemble Ryu.

Convoy was only available in a two-pack with Megatron [Vega]. This set was available for pre-order on TakaraTomy Mall from November 22 to 27, 2017, with orders fulfilled in late May 2018. A pre-order goal was set as well: if at least 3000 units were pre-ordered, the set would also come with clear display stands for both toys.

This two-pack was later brought to the west in 2022 as part of the Transformers Collaborative line, released as a Target and Hasbro Pulse exclusive in the United States. It is currently unknown what differences there are between the two releases; the Hasbro versions likely have new manufacturing tampographs, at least.



Titans Return mold: Diac



Hasbro:

Titans Return Diac
Refractor
Murk

TakaraTomy:

Legends LG-EX Black Convoy
LG57 Octone

Street Fighter II × Transformers Convoy [Ryu]



 Golden Lagoon
 No luck required... until you transform him.
Convoy (July 29, 2018)
Hasbro ID number: GL-01
Accessories: Ion blaster, energon axe, Matrix of Leadership


Golden Lagoon Convoy is a gold and gold chrome redeco of MP-10 in homage of the original cartoon episode of the same name. He does not include the trailer, Roller or Spike, but retains his energon axe, ion blaster, and Matrix of Leadership. 

Part of TakaraTomy's 35th anniversary celebration, he was initially released at Summer Wonder Festival 2018, then later through Cybertron Satellite stores across Japan and TakaraTomy Mall on September 9, 2018. Along with the rest of the Golden Lagoon toys, he was later rereleased through Hasbro Pulse in January 2021.

This toy was used to represent Gold Primus Convoy in the Generations Selects comic.



Masterpiece mold: Convoy (MP-10)



TakaraTomy:

Masterpiece MP-10 Convoy
MP-10A Convoy (BAPE ver.)
MP-10 Convoy Mode "Eva"
MP-10R Convoy (BAPE REDCAMO ver.)
MP-10K Convoy (BAPE BLACKCAMO ver.)
MP-711 Convoy (7‑Eleven ver.)
MP-10ASL Convoy (atmos safari LEBRON Ver.)
MP-10DC Convoy (atmos safari duckcamo Ver.)
MP-10ASE Convoy (atmos safari ELEPHANT CAMO Ver.)
MP-10ASV Convoy (atmos safari VIOTECH CAMO Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO BLACK Ver.)
MP-10AS Convoy (atmos safari TIGER CAMO YELLOW Ver.)
MP-10B Black Convoy

Golden Lagoon Convoy

Hasbro:

Transformers (2010) Masterpiece Optimus Prime

Platinum Edition Year of the Horse Optimus Prime

Shattered Glass Shattered Glass Optimus Prime

Masterpiece MP-10 Optimus Prime

Collaborative MP-10G Optimus Prime Ecto-35 Edition




Shogo HasuiSee also: MP-1 Convoy | MP-44 Convoy



 G-Shock × Transformers
 STAR PLATINUM!
Master Optimus Prime (December 8, 2018)
Accessories: 2 Star Drive Cannon, Chrono Matrix
 Known designers: Kōjin Ōno (TakaraTomy)


Released to celebrate the 35th anniversary of Transformers and G-Shock, Master Optimus Prime transforms into a "Pedestal Prime Mode" that can hold the included Chrono Matrix accessory or a G-Shock watch. In particular, it is able to hold G-Shock DW-5600 series and DW-6900 series watches. The included Star Drive Cannons can be held in the hands in robot mode, or attached to its Pedestal Prime Mode.

This mold was retooled to make Master Nemesis Prime.

Master Optimus Prime Resonant Mode [With G-Shock] (December 8, 2018)
Accessories: 2 Star Drive Cannon, Chrono Matrix


Essentially the same release as above, but includes a compatible DW-6900TF-4 watch.


 Vintage G1
 Aren't you over trailers by now?
Optimus Prime (2019)
Accessories: 2 laser blasters, 2 fists (left & right)


Sold at a Generations Leader-price point, Vintage G1 Optimus Prime is a Walmart-exclusive reissue of the Generation 1 toy without the trailer. It includes the two versions of his blaster rifle that had not been packaged together since the New Year Special release, and his smokestacks are now restored to their long, untrimmed glory not seen in the U.S. since the Generation 2 toy. The silver stripes on his chest and arms are now painted, replacing the factory-applied stickers. In addition, this release comes with a new sticker sheet that features more symmetrical designs.

Like all Vintage G1 figures, Optimus Prime was exclusive to Walmart in the United States and Canada and general release in Asia, notably Toys"R"Us.


 35th Anniversary
 
Convoy & Optimus Prime Set (2-pack, 2019)
Release Date: December 2019
Accessories: 2 laser blasters, 2 fists (left & right)


Released as a TakaraTomy Mall exclusive, Convoy is basically a TakaraTomy release of the Vintage G1 toy above, complete with an additional laser blaster. It does not however come with the modified sticker sheet from the Vintage G1 release.

Convoy was only sold as a set with (but packaged separately from) Optimus Prime.



 Crossover Collection
 
 My Little Prime (2020)

Part of a series featuring crossovers between MLP and other properties including Ghostbusters, Power Rangers, and Dungeons & Dragons, My Little Prime is a pony representation of Optimus Prime using a mold inspired by Generation 1 of the equine property. He has an Autobot insignia as his cutie mark. The figure has no articulation aside from a ball-jointed tail.

My Little Prime at Hasbro Pulse





 Transformers Fan Book
 
Transformers Fan Book 2021 (TV-Magazine Mook, 2021)
Release Date: July 2021


Released as one of the freebies (along with the Stealth-colored Bumblebee) for the 2021 issue of the Transformers Fan Book, this Optimus Prime is yet another redeco of the Reveal the Shield Legends Class mold. Deco changes include the silver paint being stripped from the smokestacks, while the rest of the body parts, such as the lower waist and the upper thighs/tanks, are painted in black instead. This release uses the Motorbreath retooling.





Transformers mold: Optimus Prime (Legends Class)



Hasbro:

Reveal the Shield Optimus Prime

Transformers (2010) Optimus Prime (dollar store)

Generations Motorbreath (GDO)

Transformers (2014) Optimus Prime
Ultra Magnus

TakaraTomy:

Chronicle Convoy
Convoy (Generation 2)

EZ Collection Gum Convoy

EZ Collection (2013) Optimus Prime

Transformers (campaign item) Convoy [Anniversary Clear Ver.]

Transformers Fan Book 2021 Optimus Prime



 Robosen Collector's Edition
 This isn't your slightly older brother's automorph.
Optimus Prime Auto-Converting Robot (2021)
Accessories: carrying case, laser rifle, energy axe, non-removable exhaust pipes, wall charger, micro USB to USB 2.0 cable


Robosen's Optimus Prime is a highly interactive, programmable transforming robot. With over 5,000 pieces, 60 microchips, 27 servo motors, 6 high-intensity LEDs, 80 different sound effects including voice clips from Peter Cullen, a dedicated iOS/Android bluetooth app interface, and a pricetag of $750 USD, it blurs the line between "toy" and "high-end showroom electronics." Users can choose between multiple ways to control its robotic movements: including pre-programmed voice commands, pre-programmed app controls, or user-created movement scripts. In truck mode, it can drive as directed or honk its horn. In its MP-10 Convoy-influenced 19"-tall robot mode, it can execute a long list of included scripted actions featuring voice and sound effects, plus an infinite variety of user-programmed poses and user-scripted movement sequences. It has distinct attack movements and sounds to be used with its weapons, and has flip-out wrist communicators featuring sticker images of Megatron and Bumblebee. 

The main power source is an internal rechargeable lithium ion battery. The truck's front bumper flips down to expose the charging port and the separate micro USB interface port. A replaceable CR 1220 3V battery powers the "laser rifle's" LED; it's not really a laser, but it's bright. The instructions say don't look straight at it. 

In voice command mode, the spoken user command for conversion between truck and robot modes is officially supposed to be "convert," but secretly the toy will respond the same if you say "transform." It also responds to more than 30 other simple words and phrases which trigger other animations and basic functions: such as: "turn left" to turn left, "move right" to step to the right, or "hero" to strike a superheroic ground-punching pose. 6 months after launch, the Robosen software developers were still releasing new movement animations and firmware updates via channels that can be found in the official app, with no announced end date for their continuing improvements.

27 servo motors might sound like a lot, but compared to contemporary 1st-party figures costing hundreds and hundreds (and hundreds!) of dollars less, this item does lack some some pretty standard joints: such as neck rotation, wrist rotation, and the type of leg rotation that would have allowed the feet to point in different directions.

Although this Optimus Prime does mostly transform on its own, there are some additional manual adjustments required to make each mode look the way it's advertised. In robot mode, one red panel can be removed from the back of the head, and the gas tanks can be moved into a lower position on the legs. If the gas tanks are not lowered, they can protrude enough to obstruct animation. For vehicle mode, the removable red panel should be reattached, gas tanks moved back so they don't cover the wheels, and the side-view mirrors can be flipped out.

In truck mode, especially via app control, Optimus is a fully functional remote control vehicle that can move forward, backward, and turn. Its steering does not happen the way real trucks do when they tilt the axles of the front wheels within their wheel wells; Instead, Optimus turns by throwing both legs simultaneously to one side or the other, which gives the appearance that the entire cab is pivoting around a central axis.

In robot mode, Optimus' default idle behavior is not to stand perfectly still. Instead, he will slowly "breathe" with a subtle inhaling/exhaling motion like a human would have after aerobic exercise. From there, he will occasionally shift into other statuesque poses.

When asked to turn right or left in robot mode, Optimus is not able to perform that action in two or three normal steps with ankle and hip rotation like a human would. He lacks any leg joints that rotate around a vertical axis, so for him to rotate his body to the right, he must perform a startling stutter shuffle move. He pushes one foot out slightly forward, the other foot slightly backward, and maintains that orientation while rapidly sliding his legs together and apart more than once per second until the asymmetrical rapid sliding friction of his feet against the floor eventually scoots him into facing a different direction. This movement can wear out the paint on his inner soles pretty fast, even on smoother surfaces.

None of the toy's motorized joints are capable of supporting substantial weight without electricity. This means that when powered off, the robot cannot stand upright without external support. If the toy is in robot mode and senses its batteries are getting low, then to prevent a damaging fall, it will automatically shift into a droopy squatting pose that it can safely sustain while powered off. The average operating time from a full battery charge is approximately 40 minutes. The charging port is not accessible while the robot is standing up. Plugging in the charger while the toy is powered on might endanger fragile components.

Yes, the above means that this toy in effect cannot be displayed in robot mode when not in active use. It can't really be displayed in the proper truck mode either, as the robot legs need battery power to stay rigidly locked into truck configuration and will droop when turned off. It is rather clearly intended to remain in its protective carrying case most of the time. 

Aside from the laser rifle, none of the LED lights in the eyes, headlights, or tail lights can be deactivated while the toy is powered on. In robot mode, the brake lights shine brightly from the backs of the feet, and the headlights shine from within the forearms. Some of the pre-programmed actions exploit this deliberately, by having Optimus brandish his bright headlights as flip-out weapons. The laser rifle's LED turns on and off with its own physical switch.

Many of the pre-loaded animations assume Optimus is holding his gun in his right hand and/or that he is holding his axe in his left hand. The toy has no sensors to detect whether those accessories are in place, and the app does not consistently label which animations use accessories. It also does not label the many animations that might damage the toy if attempted while accessories are attached, but transforming converting him or punching the ground would be a bad idea. So don't activate any animations while the accessories are attached unless you're sure you know what will happen.

In addition to action/fighting/greetings animations, there are also many silly animations available from the official download page, including: Air Guitar with the G1 cartoon theme song, air drumming, a gyrating silent "Christmas" dance, doing push-ups then getting exhausted and passing out, and the Dab.

The app-controlled motion programming interface is extremely complex. The position of each joint at each step in an animation can be dictated either with numerical parameters, or by sensing the positions of the joints on the toy during programming. Many poses can be strung together to form long action sequences. The app uses long gamified sequences of tutorials to teach programming techniques and unlock more sound clips for use in more animations. Despite that available complexity though, there are some actions used by official animations that cannot be performed in customized sequences: such as a head nod, a full mode conversion, or vehicle driving commands.

Given this piece's fragility, complexity, and high cost, it is appropriate that it is packaged in a heavy duty foam-padded carrying case, complete with clasps and a handle. But the case can't protect from paint wear issues that arise quickly via actual use. Prime's knuckles and feet will instantly get severe scrape marks if he transforms on a rough surface like concrete, but even smooth unvarnished wood can wear the gloss off the paint before long. Even soft carpeting might not be safe, as some users report toppling issues due to a lack of traction. 

The sound effect for Prime's gun is of a distinctly "realistic" machine gun, and Hasbro has stated this effect may be changed.[13]

Accurate 3-D images of this Robosen toy appear throughout its app interface, but the app also decorates prominent buttons with drawings of Evergreen Optimus. The app and manual also contain many mistakes in spelling, grammar, typography, labeling transposition, etc.

This item was revealed on Hasbro Pulse in April 2021, and began shipping to purchasers in October 2021. The TakaraTomy release of the figure is unchanged, though the dialogue will be swapped from English to Japanese with Tesshō Genda reprising his role. 



Flagship Optimus Prime (2022)
Accessories: carrying case, laser rifle, energy axe, non-removable exhaust pipes, wall charger, micro USB to USB 2.0 cable


One year after the release of the original Robosen Optimus Prime, the figure was re-labeled as "Flagship Optimus Prime" and rereleased with no changes.... except the price tag, now $999. 



Elite Optimus Prime (2022)
Accessories: carrying case, laser rifle, energy axe, non-removable exhaust pipes, wall charger, micro USB to USB 2.0 cable


"Elite Optimus Prime" is a downsized version of the original (and now "Flagship") Robosen Optimus Prime, standing a mere 16" instead of 19" and costing $699. The different proportions result in a few noticeable but minor visual changes, such as the fuel tanks on his legs being a different shape and elevation compared to the original toy. It retains all the features and programmable functions as the original. 


 Classic Heroes Team
 
Optimus Prime (All Star Rescan, 2022)

A redeco of the Rescue Bots Optimus Prime Racing Trailer set minus the trailer, Classic Heroes Team Optimus Prime converts from robot mode to truck mode in a single step and features a slightly different deco from the original release, including blue windows instead of black, yellow highlights in place of the light blue and greens, new silver and black paint applications on the legs, and a new Autobot insignia over the chest area.

This toy was also released in a Rescue Bots Academy packaging with the Classic Heroes Team branding as a subline, arguably making it into another incarnation of the character.


 LEGO
 "Autobots, assemble… my body."
Optimus Prime (June 1, 2022)
Set Number: 10302
Pieces: 1,508
Accessories: "Ion blaster", "Energon axe", "Energon cube", "Autobot Matrix of Leadership", jetpack, display plaque, optional waist panel, brick separator 
 Known designers: Joe Kyde (LEGO)


The first ever collaboration between Hasbro and one of its main competitors, LEGO, 10302 Optimus Prime is a fully brick-built model of the Autobot leader standing 13.5 inches tall, released under LEGO's Creator Expert subtheme. Unlike (most of) Hasbro's Kre-O sets that preceded it, this LEGO Optimus Prime set is fully transformable from robot to truck mode without having to disassemble any parts. He also includes an optional waist piece for fans to either display him with the Generation 1 toy-accurate truck bumper or the cartoon-accurate yellow block-shaped detail. A tall, top-heavy model, stability concerns mean he is not as articulated as a normal action figure, notably lacking bending knees.

Prime comes with a plethora of brick-built accessories. He includes his ion blaster, his "Energon axe" (which can plug into either wrist once you remove the fist), a pink "Energon cube", the "Autobot Matrix of Leadership" (which can be stored inside his chest), and a jetpack based on the one he borrowed from Sideswipe in "More than Meets the Eye, Part 3" (which can be attached to his back). Aside from the Matrix, only the ion blaster has dedicated storage when Prime is in truck mode, fitting between his legs to form the truck's trailer hitch; according to a small trivia blurb in the instructions, this is because the ion blaster was the only accessory in the set that was also included with the original Generation 1 Optimus Prime toy. Of course, this is LEGO we're talkin' about, so if you want, you can store the rest of the stuff on him anywhere you see some exposed studs! 

To round things out, an Ultimate Collector's Series-styled display plaque featuring Optimus Prime's name (in both English and Ancient Autobot), function, motto, and Tech Specs is included.

Optimus Prime's instruction booklet contains a short segment written by none other than LEGO Senior Designer Joe Kyde, which showcases the history of the Transformers brand and the character of Optimus Prime. Unfortunately, said instructions also contain an assembly error: the stickered details on Prime's thighs are applied upside down compared to the Generation 1 character model. This error is also present on the stock photography on the packaging. Fortunately, the panels can be removed easily and reinstalled in the correct orientation for a more accurate robot mode. The aforementioned blurb also contains an amusing compromise—giving up on any attempt to reconcile Optimus's famous catchphrase and the need to protect Hasbro's Transformers trademark, it renders the iconic command as "Autobots, convert and roll out!"

More information on 10302 Optimus Prime at Brickset




 Anti-Gravity Pedestal Tenseg Base
 
Optimus Prime Set
Release Date: June 30, 2022
Accessories: Blaster, "Tenseg Base"


This uniquely branded Anti-Gravity Pedestal Tenseg Base release of Optimus Prime is a redeco of Kingdom Ultra Magnus's inner robot. Optimus Prime comes with a silver "Tenseg Base" which he can attach to, simulating a "floating" pose. Optimus Prime retains Siege/Kingdom Ultra Magnus's blaster accessory, colored in a darker metallic gray in a possible attempt to emulate Prime's usual ion blaster.

Unusually for TakaraTomy, the vehicle mode stock photos are slightly mistransformed - the upper body isn't slid all the way forward, which makes the truck grille appear misaligned. Also, the Hasbro Pulse listing of the figure labels it as a "Masterpiece" figure, likely because the figure's box comes sheathed in a Masterpiece branded sleeve.

Sold separately are two alternately colored bases; one in heroic Autobot red and the other in EVIL Decepticon purple. Initially due for release in March 2022, Prime and the bases were eventually released on June 30.

In a happy accident of cross-compatibility, Tenseg Base Optimus Prime can be equipped with the armor and alternate head included with Shattered Glass Collection Ultra Magnus to replicate the red cab variant of Diaclone Powered Convoy released in GiG's short-lived Trasformer [sic] toyline, minus Super Buggy.



Siege mold: Ultra Magnus



Version 1:

Hasbro/TakaraTomy: Siege WFC-S13 Ultra Magnus

War for Cybertron Trilogy Ultra Magnus (Spoiler Pack)

Premium Finish PF WFC-03 Ultra Magnus

Version 2:

Hasbro/TakaraTomy: Siege WFC-S40 Galaxy Upgrade Optimus Prime

Version 3:

Hasbro/TakaraTomy Kingdom Ultra Magnus

Anti-Gravity Pedestal Tenseg Base Optimus Prime Set (cab only)

Shattered Glass Collection Ultra Magnus



 Canon/Transformers
 Canon is the right of all sentient photographers.
Optimus Prime R5 (2023)
Accessories: Camera Cap/Shield, small camera accessory, Matrix of Leadership
 Known designers: Kōjin Ōno (TakaraTomy)


Canon/Transformers Optimus Prime is a roughly Voyager-sized figure that transforms into a fully licensed Canon EOS R5 digital camera. The toy is 80% the size of the genuine article and features a removable lens attachment, though it must be reattached to him before he can transform to robot mode since it forms his arms. The lens cap is removable and is used as a shield in robot mode. His included Matrix of Leadership can be pegged onto his lens, just behind the front element. He also comes with a small version of his own camera mode.

Both his Matrix and small camera accessory can be pegged into his palms. His hands feature a range of movement, with the thumb and index finger being articulated and the remaining fingers joined together.

This mold was also used to make the concurrently released TakaraTomy Mall exclusive Decepticon Refraktor R5, and redecoed into Nemesis Prime.


 Notes
 Before he became Optimus Prime
 Not so Optimus Prime.
The first prototype for Battle Convoy, the Diaclone originator of Optimus Prime, was vastly different from the final version, complete with an entirely different transformation and a car carrying trailer. The head lacked the faceplate.
A later prototype/mock-up was much closer to the final product but still has some noticeable differences, such as a head with much larger antennae, longer smokestacks and a front grille section that includes the rectangular section that would sport the "Freightliner" logo on the real-life truck (on the final toy, the rectangular section is part of the hinged upper section that includes the windows). It would have also been possible to attach the ion blaster to either of his shoulders.[14]
The toy that would ultimately end up as the original Optimus Prime toy was originally released in August 1983 as No.17 Battle Convoy from Takara's Diaclone Car Robo toyline in Japan. In 1984, Joustra released their own version (still with Diaclone sticker on the trailer) as part of their Diaclone line in Europe, either simply called Truck (according to the pack-in catalog) or Diaclone (in the pack-in comic). It's possible that GiG also released a version called Camion Convoy as part of their Trasformer line in Italy, but to this day no packaged sample has surfaced.


 The many releases of Optimus Prime
 Too much Prime on my hands.
Over the years, the original Optimus Prime has been repackaged and reissued multiple times:

In the US and Canada, limited edition promotional versions were available sporting Pepsi stickers; the Canadian version has large Pepsi stickers that cover the entire trailer, while the US version only has small Pepsi stickers that partially obscure the lines running across the trailer;
In addition to the standard Japanese 01 Convoy release, Takara also released the toy as part of the VSX Convoy vs. Megatron two-pack in 1985;
Takara released a variant sporting clear blue windows and as part of the "Good Bye Convoy" set (packaged with Alert/Red Alert and Ligier/Mirage) in 1986;
Hasbro's subsidiary Milton Bradley (MB) released the toy in Europe in late 1985, following a slight delay due to licensing issues;[15] there are no less than three variants of MB-packaged Optimus Prime, one of them manufactured by Takara and sporting blue feet, the other two manufactured by Joustra as part of a deal with Hasbro/MB, one of them with blue and the other one with red feet;[1]
After Hasbro's European division had changed the packaging from "MB" to "Hasbro", the toy continued to be available in 1986, including more of the Joustra-manufactured red and blue feeted versions, which were apparently also available in the UK in English-only packaging;[1]
GiG released the toy as Commander as part of their Transformers line in Italy in 1985, including an all-plastic variant in 1986;
IGA released their version in Mexico in 1985; unsold stock was later imported to a plethora of European countries, including the UK, with Optimus Prime having the yellow paint scraped off his eyes and then having them painted over in red;
Hasbro reissued the "Original Autobot Leader" toy as part of their European Classics line of reissues in 1991;
Hasbro released a redecoed version with additional accessories as part of their Generation 2 line in 1993;
Takara reissued the original toy in its original 1985 Japanese packaging in 2000, with an all-black recolor being available from assorted Japanese conventions and another variant with gold instead of silver parts, stickers, and paint as a lucky draw prize;
Takara reissued the toy again as New Year Special version in January 2002, sporting clear blue windows (similar to Good Bye Convoy) and featuring additional accessories such as a Matrix necklace and a show accurate recolor of the Action Master Optimus Prime figure;
Hasbro reissued the toy in the US and the UK as part of their Generation One Commemorative Series line of reissues in 2002, sporting shortened down smokestacks for safety reasons;
Takara reissued the toy once again in 2003, as part of their The Transformers Collection line of reissues, numbered 00 and featuring additional accessories such as an energon axe;
Takara released a recolored version featuring a new trailer in December 2005, called Pepsi Convoy.
Hasbro released their own version of Pepsi Convoy, named "Pepsi Optimus Prime", as a Hasbro Toy Shop exclusive in 2007, featuring the familiar safety-shortened smokestacks of the Commemorative Series reissue.
In August 2007 TakaraTomy yet again did a rerelease similar to the 2000 Convoy rerelease, this time as part of the "Transformers Encore" line. This version has a new rifle with a longer handle so Optimus can finally hold it straight.
TakaraTomy released "Convoy iPod Docking Bay with Speakers" in September 2007. It is an iPod speaker/dock in the shape of a truck, featuring an all-white version of Convoy with a new head sculpt reminiscent of Masterpiece Convoy as the cab, and a trailer housing a pair of speakers and a docking point for an iPod.
In March 2008, TakaraTomy released a G1-colored version of the iPod Convoy set.
Hasbro released the 25th Anniversary gift set edition detailed above in 2008, as part of the 2008 Universe line, once again with shortened smokestacks.
TakaraTomy released another reissue based on the Encore version as part of their Chronicle line in 2011, lacking the original Generation 1 trailer. Instead, the Chronicle version was available in a two-pack with Dark of the Moon Deluxe Class Optimus Prime and a new trailer that could be used by both Optimuses, thanks to a retooled trailer hitch on the Generation 1 Optimus Prime figure.
In 2012, Hasbro reissued Optimus Prime again for their Asian markets, this time mixing the 25th Anniversary version of the toy itself with the older Commemorative Series packaging.[16]
In 2019, Optimus was rereleased once again, this time without his trailer and with his original long smokestacks (something he hasn't had in America since Generation 2), in Hasbro's Vintage G1 line of reissues exclusive to Walmart stores in US and Canada.


 Powermaster Optimus Prime design history
 Overcompensating.
Powermaster Optimus Prime, being the grand toy rebirth of Optimus Prime post-movie, apparently received a lot of thought during the design process. Prime went through an inordinate number of design changes from concept to final with at least three very major revisions:

The earliest version, as shown in the first patent application for the toy, was to have the Prime cab be a triplechanger, turning from truck cab to jet or robot.[17] The nosecone of the jet and robot legs were released by the Powermaster lock in the same fashion as the legs in the final version. Optimus would have had winged arms in non-super robot mode. The super robot mode's head was also integrated into the trailer's hitch... and lacked a faceplate.

 Blockhead.
The second known version [18] ditched the triplechanging gimmick on the cab and simplified things a good bit. This Powermaster Prime has several distinct characteristics only seen in the second design, such as the wider "block head" and two faux smokestacks on top of either shoulder as opposed to one. Also, in a rather odd twist, this design features a black head and fists for both super and regular modes rather than the traditional blue. It also had yellow eyes in either mode a la the original Optimus Prime.

 Triple-Power-Headmaster Optimus Prime was just too damn long to put on the box.
The third version [19] would quite possibly have been the most gimmick loaded Transformer in the history of the line, simultaneously being a Powermaster, Headmaster, and Triple Changer. The Headmaster also would have been a Triple Changer, turning into a sort of armored four-wheeled rover (Roller II?) and robot as well as a rather silly looking Optimus Prime head with four vertically aligned wheels jutting off the sides. It seems that when the extra Headmaster gimmick was scrapped, the super mode head remained separate rather than being reintegrated into the trailer hitch such as on the earliest design. Notably, the body of this design is extremely close to the final design.
A fourth version is shown in the 1987-88 Transformers product catalog that has several minor differences from both Powermaster Prime and God Ginrai, such as having God Ginrai's sliding fists but in red, a completely different trailer hitch assembly partially based on the third design, an offset Autobot symbol in base mode, extended feet also based on third design, far more detailed super mode outer leg panels, completely different front bumper, and the first instance of single faux shoulder smokestacks rather than two. It is still unknown as to why Powermaster Prime has completely different arms from God Ginrai or all earlier concept versions.

Powermaster Prime's animation model as used in the commercials and as a character guide for the Marvel comics is a composite of the second and third designs. The body of the model is actually a straight tracing of the concept lineart for the third version (including its different rifles and twin faux shoulder stacks), with a slightly simplified drawing of the second version's head drawn on top.


 Miscellaneous Primes
 I am the prototype of the toy of the future!
Return of Convoy catalogues reveal the planning process behind Star Convoy's evolution from gimmick-rich illustration to prototype before reaching final production.

 Stealing purses across the ages.
The pose used for Generation 2 Hero Optimus Prime's package art is rather blatantly swiped from Generation 1 Powermaster Optimus Prime's package art.
On a similar note, Machine Wars Optimus Prime's package art is merely edited from Generation 2 Laser Optimus Prime's card art, keeping it mostly intact save for the removal of shoulder kibble and the addition of a non-windowed chestplate.

 Wait...I'm sure this is from Finland. But why did Simmons say...
The Masterpiece Optimus Prime toy was featured in a print ad for Nokia 6820 phones in December 2004.[20] He is posed bent over to look at the phone and scratching his head. Pleasantly, most of the pose pictured is perfectly possible with an un-kitbashed, un-Photoshopped version of the toy. (The real toy can't bend forward at the waist like that, alas.)
Classics Optimus Prime was initially intended to be Deluxe-sized. An alleged list of the tentative Classics line-up[21] included a Deluxe-sized Optimus Prime without a trailer and a version with a trailer at the Voyager price point; however, it appears the decision was eventually made to upscale Optimus to Voyager size instead.[22] Don Figueroa's control drawings for the Deluxe version were leaked before the Classics line was even released at retail.[23] A gray model prototype was later shown as part of an interview with TakaraTomy's staff in Transformers Generations 2009 vol. 1.[24] It's unclear whether the trailer ever made it past the early planning stage before the size of the figure was changed.


 References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 "The Three MB Optimus Primes" at 20th Century Toy Collector
↑ Or "Ver. Black Camo," in Transformers Generations 2012.
↑ Japanese listing on the BAPE website. The accompanying English text reads "01 CONVOY BAPE VERSION RED CAMO".
↑ Encore Star Convoy sticker issue
↑ ToyFare Magazine Best Toys Ever
↑ Steve-o's OTFCC 2004 notes
↑ Good Design Long Life Award: Transformers Masterpiece
↑ Gallery of the unreleased Gentei! Gentei black Convoy at TFormers.com.
↑ The unreleased Gentei! Gentei! black Convoy in packaging at TFW2005.
↑ TFW2005.com reports on the Philippines Autobot Alliance/Cybertron Con event. June 18, 2010
↑ TakaraTomy au x Transformers Project press release
↑ Transformers x au Transforming Phones Launch Crowdfunding Campaign at TFW2005.com
↑ Review of Robosen Optimus Prime mentioning the sound effect choice
↑ Diaclone catalog scans at 1501bc.com.
↑ "The Jetfire vs Optimus Prime mixup" at 20th Century Toy Collector
↑ "Bad news RE: new Commemorative Prime" at Cybertron.ca.
↑ Patent #JP63-132686
↑ Transformers Generations, p22, p106
↑ Transformers Generations, p106
↑ "20th Anniversary Optimus Prime Featured in Nokia Ad"
↑ Rumor about the Classics lineup that turned out to be spot on aside from Voyager Soundwave and Deluxe Optimus Prime.
↑ "Cybertron Crosswise Redeco and Transformers Classics Info" (via Joe Kyde's proxy "SAGE2764")
↑ Leaked Classics Deluxe Optimus Prime control drawings: Vehicle mode, robot mode
↑ Translated TakaraTomy Henkei/Classics staff interview



Retrieved from "https://tfwiki.net/mediawiki/index.php?title=Optimus_Prime_(G1)/toys&oldid=1691374"
Categories: Unreleased toysArticles in need of imagesAction MastersAlternators AutobotsAlternity AutobotsAuthenticsBot Shots AutobotsClassics AutobotsConstruct-Bots AutobotsContest prizesConvention exclusivesE-HOBBY exclusivesGeneration 1 toy AutobotsGeneration 2 AutobotsGeneration 2 Go-BotsGT charactersHenkei! Henkei! AutobotsKiss Players AutobotsMachine Wars AutobotsMail order exclusivesMasterpieceMusic LabelPowermastersQ-Transformers charactersReturn of Convoy AutobotsRobotmasters AutobotsSDCC exclusivesTakaraTomy Mall exclusivesTimelines charactersTitanium SeriesToys"R"Us exclusivesToys"R"Us Japan exclusivesTransformers with three modesUnite Warriors AutobotsUnited AutobotsUniverse (2008) 










Navigation


Main Page
Rise of the Beasts
EarthSpark
Legacy
Studio Series
BotBots
Community portal
Recent changes
Random page
Help

 


Search



 
                                




Tools


What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version Permanent link 


 
Advertisement






















 This page was last modified on 3 May 2023, at 00:14.
Content is available under Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported unless otherwise noted.
Privacy policy
About Transformers Wiki
Disclaimers








